# Judgment of the Storm

    
    
    
    SUBTITLE 1:--(FADE IN ON)
     
    		The Heath farm on the outskirts of 
    		the college town of Darienne.
     
    1.	EXTERIOR HEATH FARM:
     	This is a long shot of the Heath farm taken 
    	from the field which Dave Heath is engaged 
    	in plowing.  To make this farm yield enough 
    	to clothe and feed a large family requires 
     	unremitting toil on the part of Dave, who so
    	far has kept the farm in good condition. Dave 
    	halts the plow, takes off his hat and mops his 
    	brow.
     
    2. 	HEATH LIVING ROOM:
     	This room is a combined living and dining room. 
    	The furniture is of a kind that ordinarily 
    	would be found in a house situated on a farm 
    	which only continued labor could make pay.  
    	Although the furnishings are of the ordinary 
    	kind, yet everything is kept spick and span.  
    	The table is already set for the noonday meal.  
    	In a corner of the room, between two windows, 
    	sits Mrs. Heath with her work-basket in her 
    	lap.
     
    SUBTITLE 2:--Mrs. Heath,--_Claire McDowell_
     
    3.	CLOSE UP ON MRS. HEATH:
     	Mrs. Heath is sorting out some handkerchiefs 
    	and places them in a workbasket which she puts 
    	to one side.  Then she resumes work on a 
    	sweater she is making for John Trevor, a senior 
    	in the college at Darienne and one of Mary 
    	Heath's greatest admirers. Mrs. Heath is a 
    	kindly woman but has a high sense of duty.  If 
    	at times she seems unreasonably stern, it is 
    	only because of this inborn idea of duty, as 
    	she sees it.
     
    SUBTITLE 3:--Her daughter, Mary--_Lucille Ricksen_
     
    4.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY--HEATH KITCHEN: 
    	Mary is standing near the window by the kitchen 
    	sink, cutting bread for the noonday meal.  She 
    	is a very winsome girl of about eighteen years 
    	of age, with lustrous brown eyes and curly hair 
    	which hangs down her back in wavy ringlets. 
    	Suddenly Mary looks up from her task and 
    	gazing intently off scene toward the door which 
    	joins the living room and the kitchen, sees--
     
    5.	CLOSE SHOT ON TABLE AND CHAIR--HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	The family fox terrier, in search of food, has 
    	cautiously climbed up on a chair and now slowly 
    	raises its head above the level of the table. It 
    	looks about the table longingly and then, 
    	apparently unobserved, proceeds to investigate 
    	matters a little more closely.
     
    6. 	CLOSE-UP ON MARY--HEATH KITCHEN: 
    	Into Mary's eyes comes an amused twinkle as she 
    	closely watches to see what the dog is about to 
    	do.  Although her attention is riveted on the 
    	dog, she continues to slice the bread slowly.
     
    7.	CLOSE SHOT ON TABLE AND CHAIR--HEATH LIVING ROOM:
     	The dog, now thinking that it is not being 
    	observed, puts its paws up on the table and 
    	sniffs around for something to eat.  It now 
    	puts its muzzle on the table cloth as if trying 
    	to overturn one of the dinner plates to see if 
    	anything is hidden there.
     
    8. 	HEATH KITCHEN:
     	Mary takes down a dish towel which hangs on a 
    	nail above the drain board of the sink and, 
    	smiling, quietly tiptoes out of the kitchen, 
    	prepared to surprise the still unsuspecting dog.
     
    9. 	HEATH LIVING ROOM:
     	Shooting toward corner of room where Mrs. Heath 
    	is still seated, working on John's sweater and 
    	tipping in the table and the chair upon which 
    	the dog stands. As Mary enters on tiptoe, Mrs. 
    	Heath quickly looks up but Mary puts her 
    	fingers to her lips--warning her mother not to 
    	make any noise.  Still moving noiselessly, Mary 
    	maneuvers herself into a position directly back 
    	of the chair where she can not be seen by the 
    	still unsuspecting dog. Suddenly she seizes the 
    	back of the chair and shakes it violently, 
    	dumping the dog off on the floor.  As the dog 
    	springs down, Mary strikes at him with the dish 
    	towel, thus adding to his confusion as he 
    	hurriedly exits from the scene.
     
    10. 	CLOSE-UP ON MARY--LIVING ROOM: 
    	Mary stands there looking at the fast vanishing 
    	dog.  At first she tries to look serious as 
    	though the dog were a grave offender; but then 
    	the humor of the affair strikes her, and she 
    	begins to smile good naturedly. Allow for 
    	action here so as to bring out the fact that 
    	Mary is a sweetly sympathetic girl, with an 
    	eye open to the amusing things in life.
     
    11. 	WINDMILL IN HEATH FARMYARD:
     	This windmill is in the Heath farmyard about 
    	fifty feet or so from the farmhouse, and is 
    	built above one of the out buildings which is 
    	almost completely covered with vines.  From the 
    	ground to the little platform just beneath the 
    	vanes of the windmill runs a ladder, formed by 
    	nailing cross cleats to one of the timbers 
    	supporting the mill.  Paul and Patsy, the Heath 
    	twins, enter the scene, running from the 
    	farmhouse to the foot of the ladder, prepared 
    	to climb to the platform.  At the time there is 
    	not sufficient breeze blowing to turn the mill 
    	so that the blades are immobile. As usual, Paul 
    	and Patsy are on mischief bent--although they 
    	are continually in some sort of trouble, yet 
    	they are greatly loved by all the members of 
    	the Heath family who seem destined to forgive 
    	one childish prank just in time for the twins 
    	to launch themselves into another.
     
    12.	CLOSE SHOT ON TWINS--WINDMILL:
     	Paul and Patsy have now come to the foot of the 
    	ladder, preparatory to climbing to the platform 
    	high above their heads.  Their eyes shine with 
    	roguishness, for they know that they have been 
    	forbidden to climb this ladder.  This adds zest 
    	to their enterprise. Now with Paul in the lead 
    	they begin to climb, Patsy bravely following 
    	her daring little brother.   They struggle 
    	upward from one cleat to another for the cleats 
    	are some distance apart, and it is no easy 
    	matter for the twins to stretch their little 
    	legs so far. However, undeterred by such a 
    	minor difficulty as this they continue to climb 
    	higher and higher.
     
    13. 	WINDMILL IN HEATH FARMYARD:
     	The twins continue to climb upward, never once 
    	glancing down at the ground which is getting 
    	further and further away, adding greatly to 
    	their peril should they, by any chance, slip 
    	and fall.  Paul, being a boy, is a much better 
    	climber than his sister, Patsy; but the little 
    	girl is dressed in a suit of rompers and these 
    	do not interfere with the free movement of her 
    	little legs as she follows her brother with a 
    	grim determination.
     
    14.	CLOSE SHOT ON WINDMILL PLATFORM:
    	Paul slowly comes into the scene and, clinging 
    	to one of the cleats of the ladder with one 
    	hand, pushes open the trapdoor with the other.   
    	After some difficulty,  he succeeds in pulling 
    	himself through the opening in the platform and 
    	then leans down to assist Patsy, grabbing her 
    	by the seat of the breeches portion of her 
    	rompers.  Soon they are both safe on the 
    	platform.
     
    15.	SIDE PORCH--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Mary comes to the door, looking for the twins 
    	to wash them for the noonday meal. Now she 
    	comes to the porch and, seeing some cute little 
    	chicks huddled together there, stoops down and 
    	picks up one of them.
     
    16.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY HOLDING CHICK:
    	A very pretty shot of her here as she holds the 
    	chick in both her hands.  She looks at it 
    	whimsically and then smiles at the helpless
     	little fluffy thing.   Now she snuggles it close
     	to her neck.   Hold sufficiently long to get
    	over the idea that Mary is a very kindhearted 
    	girl with a wholesome sympathy for the helpless 
    	and for those in trouble.  This will help to 
    	make clear her attitude toward John Trevor 
    	later in the story.
     
    17. 	CLOSE SHOT ON WINDMILL PLATFORM: 
    	Paul is now standing up while Patsy is seated, 
    	intently watching her heroic little brother. 
    	Paul now goes over to one side of the platform 
    	and, clinging to the vanes of the windmill with 
    	one hand, bravely, though recklessly, stands on 
    	one foot on the platform's edge. Patsy seems 
    	much impressed with the "stunt" of her little 
    	brother but is content to remain seated where 
    	it is a good deal safer.
     
    18.	WINDMILL IN HEATH FARMYARD:
    	This is a still longer shot of the windmill, 
    	taken so as to tip in a large part of the yard. 
    	Paul is still balancing on one foot on the edge 
    	of the platform.  Patsy, still seated, is 
    	admiring him.
     
    19.	CLOSE SHOT ON WINDMILL PLATFORM: 
    	Paul still balancing on one foot and having 
    	noted the impression for bravery that he has 
    	made on Patsy says, rather contemptuously:
     
    SUBTITLE 4:--"Aw, that's nothing--I'll show you 
    		a good trick."
     
    	(Scene 19 continued.)  Now Paul puts his hands 
    	upon the platform's edge and prepares to stand 
    	on his hands.  Patsy is greatly excited and 
    	tries to grab him by the leg, but Paul is 
    	determined to show her "his good trick."  After 
    	several attempts which result in failures, he 
    	finally succeeds in standing on his hands.  His 
    	position is an extremely perilous one and 
    	little Patsy is rightly worried.
     
    20.	BACKYARD--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
     	Mary is discovered near the back door of the 
    	farmhouse, looking anxiously across the fields 
    	for the twins.  The noonday meal is nearly 
    	ready; the twins have not had their faces and 
    	hands washed, and she can find them no place 
    	although she has hunted high and low for them.
     
    21.	CLOSE SHOT ON WINDMILL PLATFORM:
    	Not satisfied with having accomplished the 
    	trick of standing on his hands, Paul now tries
     	to stand on his head.  After two failures,
     	he succeeds; but in doing so he spins around 
    	on his head, loses his balance and drops over 
    	the side of the platform.  By a near miracle he 
    	manages to catch hold of the edge of the 
    	platform as he falls.  Hanging by his hands,
     	he is not able to draw himself up to the 
    	platform again, but at last succeeds in getting 
    	a foothold on one of the cleats of the ladder.
     
    22.	WINDMILL IN HEATH FARMYARD:
    	Mary is now standing in the backyard near the 
    	windmill, still looking for the missing twins.  
    	Paul is still hanging by his hands to the edge 
    	of the platform, and seems on the verge of 
    	losing his hold and falling to the ground.  
    	Suddenly Mary's attention is attracted to the 
    	children above her.  She turns quickly and 
    	looks up.
     
    23.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY--SOFT EDGED CIRCLE:
     	Mary looks up toward the windmill platform and 
    	is terrified when she sees the predicament in 
    	which Paul has got himself.  For a moment she 
    	does not know what to do.  Her mouth is open 
    	and her eyes staring in the shock of her 
    	discovery.
     
    24.	BACKYARD--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
     	Mary starts toward the ladder and begins to 
    	climb to rescue her little brother.  Moments 
    	seem like hours now as she fears that Paul's 
    	strength will give out, forcing him to let go 
    	his hold on the platform.
     
    25.	CLOSE SHOT ON WINDMILL PLATFORM:
     	Patsy, greatly alarmed at Paul's perilous 
    	position, has come to his aid and, with all the 
    	strength at her command, is trying to help him 
    	back to the platform.  First, she tries to pull 
    	him to safety by his hair.  Now she seizes one 
    	of the suspenders of his jumpers; and, what 
    	with her pulling and Paul's struggles, the 
    	little boy at last manages to drag himself over 
    	the platform's edge to safety.  Paul has had a 
    	narrow escape, but does not seem to realize it.  
    	To him it is all in a day's play.
     
    26. 	CLOSE SHOT OF MARY--LADDER:
    	As she looks up and sees that Paul is again 
    	back on the platform, Mary stops climbing up 
    	the ladder. With a sigh of relief, she calls to 
    	them,  telling them to come down immediately.
     
    27.	CLOSE SHOT ON WINDMILL PLATFORM: 
    	Paul is much more afraid of Mary's wrath than 
    	he is of falling off the windmill platform. 
    	When he hears her call and realizes that she is 
    	coming up the ladder to get him and Patsy, he 
    	makes haste to remove the trapdoor so that they 
    	can descend.  Patsy starts to crawl through the 
    	opening.
     
    28. 	CLOSE SHOT ON MARY--LADDER:
    	Mary climbs up another cleat of the ladder, but 
    	now comes to the realization that the twins are 
    	well on their way to safety and that they are 
    	no longer in need of her assistance; so she 
    	stands there, watching them to assure herself 
    	that they will come down all the way to the 
    	ground and not take a sudden whim and climb 
    	back to the platform again. Having got them 
    	started to safety, she intends to wait and see 
    	that they arrive safely.
     
    29.	CLOSE SHOT ON WINDMILL PLATFORM:
     	Patsy carefully descends the ladder. As soon as 
    	she has released her hold on the upper cleat, 
    	Paul climbs through the opening in the platform 
    	and, being careful not to step on Patsy's hands, 
    	slowly makes his way down the ladder.
     
    30. 	SMALL BRIDGE OVER CREEK:
     	This is an ordinary wooden bridge spanning a 
    	small creek near the Heath farm--such a bridge 
    	as would be found in the country where the load 
    	would never exceed horses or light wagons.  The 
    	bridge has no side rails, but the planking is 
    	fairly heavy.  Seated on the bridge, with his 
    	feet dangling over the side and with a can of 
    	angle worms at his side, is one of the 
    	neighborhood boys, fishing in the stream with 
    	some home-made fishing tackle.
     
    31.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BRIDGE:
     	The boy is holding his fish pole with both 
    	hands, intently watching the water and hoping 
    	that some unwary fish will soon take the hook.  
    	So intent is the boy on his fishing that he 
    	does not hear Bob Heath as the latter 
    	approaches on his bicycle.
     
    32. 	SMALL BRIDGE OVER CREEK:
     	The boy is still sitting on the bridge, fishing, 
    	when Bob Heath, coming home to the noonday meal 
    	from the college in Darienne, starts to ride
    	noiselessly across the bridge on his bicycle.
     
    33.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BRIDGE:
     	As Bob rides by, he takes one foot off a pedal 
    	of his bicycle and, without stopping his wheel, 
    	kicks the can of angle worms into the creek. 
    	The boy hears the splash, quickly turns, sees 
    	who his tormentor is, and realizes that all 
    	fishing is spoiled for that day.
     
    34.	SMALL BRIDGE OVER CREEK:
     	Bob continues across the bridge on his way home. 
    	The boy gets to his feet and calls after Bob, 
    	telling him what he thinks of the trick Bob has 
    	played.
     
    SUBTITLE 5:--Bob Heath, the Spoiled and Pampered 
    		Younger Brother.--_George Hackathorne_.
     
    35.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB:
     	On the further side of the bridge, Bob stops 
    	his bicycle and calls out to the boy, telling 
    	him to forget it--to keep things out of the way 
    	if he does not wish to get them kicked into the 
    	water.  As Bob talks he smiles maliciously.  It 
    	is no concern of his if he kicked over the can 
    	of angle worms.  What does he care for fishing, 
    	anyhow!  Allow for sufficient action here to 
    	show that Bob is not only selfish and 
    	inconsiderate of others but is malicious too.
     
    36.	CLOSE-UP ON COUNTRY BOY:
     	The boy is very angry but realizes that he can 
    	do nothing to Bob as the latter is so much 
    	bigger and stronger than he is.  Tears start to 
    	come into his eyes as he looks angrily off 
    	scene at the disagreeable Bob.
     
    37.	SMALL BRIDGE OVER CREEK:
     	Bob, well satisfied with the fact that he has 
    	spoiled the boy's fishing and has hurt his 
    	feelings too, continues on his way home.  The 
    	boy, with tears in his eyes, turns away and 
    	sorrowfully walks across the bridge toward 
    	home, in a direction opposite to that taken by 
    	Bob.
     
    SUBTITLE 6:--Dave Heath, the oldest son, whose long 
    		days of hard work make it possible to 
    		keep the family together--_Bruce Gordon_
     
    38.	MEDIUM SHOT OF DAVE AND PLOW HORSES: 
    	Dave has brought his plow horses to a stop and 
    	stands in the partly plowed field, mopping his 
    	brow with a handkerchief.  Now he wipes off the 
    	sweat band of his battered felt hat preparatory 
    	to putting it on his head again and going to the 
    	farmhouse for the noonday meal.  Dave is a 
    	strong manly fellow of about twenty-five years 
    	of age.  The lines in his face show that he is 
    	possessed of considerable character, and is 
    	accustomed to hard work on the farm.  This work 
    	he does uncomplainingly as upon his shoulders 
    	rests almost the entire burden of making the 
    	farm pay enough to feed and clothe them all and 
    	to keep Bob in college.   That he is perhaps 
    	imposed upon at times has never occurred to 
    	Dave, as he is only too glad and willing to 
    	sacrifice himself for the benefit of others.
     
    39.	EXTERIOR HEATH FARMHOUSE:
     	Shooting from the country road that runs past 
    	the front of the house.  This shot shows nearly 
    	all of the house, the picket fence and the gate 
    	which is now open.  Through the gate now come 
    	some chickens, hurrying to get out of the way 
    	of Paul and Patsy.  The twins are not chasing 
    	the chickens, but are fleeing from Mary who is 
    	trying to get her hands on them to wash them 
    	for the noonday meal.  From the haste with 
    	which the twins flee, one might think that they 
    	were hurrying to escape some dire punishment 
    	for having climbed up the windmill; but the 
    	only punishment for them is having their faces 
    	and hands washed. Just as in the case of all 
    	small children, this is a real punishment for 
    	they see little necessity in getting washed up 
    	only to get dirty again.
     
    40.	SIDEYARD HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Bob has already entered and is riding along on 
    	his wheel.  Suddenly he loses control of the 
    	bicycle and falls to the ground.  To add to 
    	his confusion and disgust, some geese, waddling 
    	along hurriedly to escape the twins who are 
    	still fleeing from Mary, almost walk over him 
    	in their mad haste.  As Bob falls, the 
    	packages which he has been carrying under his 
    	arm are scattered in the barnyard.
     
    41.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB--SIDEYARD:
     	Bob is tangled up with his bicycle and is lying  
    	almost flat on the ground.  The frightened 
    	geese hurry to escape from the twins; and even  
    	the chickens become so excited that they begin 
    	to fly over Bob, covering him with dirt.  
    	Presently Bob manages to sit up; and, as soon 
    	as the dust has cleared, looks around him, with 
    	intense disgust written all over his face.  
    	Bob's position is not a dignified one, and he 
    	feels this fact keenly.
     
    42.	SIDEYARD--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
     	While the twins stand and look at Bob, 
    	wondering whether to continue their flight or 
    	to watch Bob, Mary comes running into the scene, 
    	goes to him, and begins to help him get on his 
    	feet again.
     
    43.	ANGLE BY BARN:
    	Dave enters with the two horses he has been 
    	using on the plow, having unhitched them to let 
    	them rest during the noon hour.  One of the 
    	horses enters the barn.  Dave leads the other 
    	forward by the reins toward the barn door.
     
    44.	HEATH KITCHEN:
     	Mrs. Heath is busying herself near the stove,
     	finishing her preparations for the noonday meal.  
    	The twins, led by Paul, enter.  Paul stands 
    	talking to his mother, while Patsy goes to her 
    	and clings to her skirts.
     
    45.	ANGLE BY BARN:
     	Near the barn door Dave stands by the side of 
    	the horse, preparatory to leading it into its 
    	stall in the barn.  He is facing the horse and 
    	does not see Mary who comes running into the 
    	scene and goes to where he is standing.
     
    46.	MEDIUM SHOT ON DAVE AND HORSE:
     	Shooting toward barn door.  Dave is adjusting 
    	the horse's harness when Mary enters scene.  As 
    	she gets close to Dave, she gives a leap; and, 
    	throwing her arms around his neck, lifts 
    	herself off of the ground.  Now she releases 
    	her hold around Dave's neck, faces him, and 
    	starts to put her arms around his neck again.
     
    47. 	CLOSE-UP ON DAVE AND MARY:
     	Mary's arms are around Dave's neck.  Together 
    	they stand there looking happily in each 
    	other's eyes.  Now Dave places his hands under 
    	Mary's arms and begins to lift her, to seat her 
    	upon the horse's back.
     
    48. 	CLOSE SHOT ON DAVE AND HORSE: 
    	Dave lifts Mary up and puts her on the horse's 
    	back; then, taking off his hat, stands there 
    	and looks at her with a good natured smile.  
    	Allow sufficient footage to show that brother 
    	and sister are held together by a close bond of 
    	sympathy and understanding.
     
    49.	CLOSE-UP ON DAVE:
     	Dave's face is wreathed in smiles as he looks 
    	up at Mary.
     
    50. 	CLOSE SHOT ON DAVE AND HORSE: 
    	As Mary holds out her arms to him, Dave reaches 
    	up and lifts her down from the horse. For a 
    	moment they stand there; and then Mary, 
    	laughing, playfully punches Dave in the ribs 
    	and runs out of the scene.  Dave smiles at her 
    	as she goes and then leads the horse into the 
    	barn.
     
    51.	SIDEYARD--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
     	The disgruntled Bob leans his bicycle against 
    	the side of the house, then comes back and 
    	picks up the packages which he had dropped in 
    	his fall.  Bob is in a disagreeable humor on 
    	account of the accident which befell him--a 
    	more disagreeable humor than usual, although at 
    	no time has he been in a particularly agreeable 
    	frame of mind.
     
    52. 	SIDE PORCH--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
     	Tipping in bench, pump and wash basin. A towel 
    	is hanging from a nail driven into the side of 
    	the house.  Dave enters, hangs his hat on a 
    	nail near towel, pumps water into the basin 
    	from a small head pump and is about to wash up 
    	for the noonday meal when the disgruntled Bob 
    	enters from the opposite side.  As Dave always 
    	listens good-naturedly to all of Bob's 
    	complaints, Bob is accustomed to pour all his 
    	trouble into Dave's ear.
     
    53.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB:
    	Looking thoroughly disgusted with things in 
    	general, Bob stands there and watches Dave.
     
    SUBTITLE 7:--Selfishly accepting as his due the 
    		sacrifices his mother and Dave are 
    		making for his education.
     
    	So thoroughly is Bob wrapped up in his 
    	selfishness that he cannot appreciate the fact 
    	that what is being done for him is a sacrifice 
    	indeed.  He really feels that he is entitled to 
    	a great deal more than he is actually getting, 
    	and that his life is a very hard one.
     
    54.	SIDE PORCH--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
     	Dave stands watching Bob as the latter comes 
    	toward him, knowing that Bob has something 
    	about which he wishes to complain.  Bob walks 
    	close to Dave, prepared to impress him with 
    	the weight of his remarks.
     
    55.	MEDIUM SHOT ON DAVE AND BOB: 
    	The disgruntled Bob stands there, petulantly 
    	complaining of his hard lot in life.  Dave 
    	listens to him patiently.
     
    56.	CLOSE SHOT ON MARY AND TWINS--HEATH KITCHEN:
     	This is a cute little shot of Mary as she 
    	washes Patsy's face and then Paul's.  Like most 
    	young children, the twins do not like to have 
    	their faces washed but realize that they have 
    	to submit to the inevitable.  Mary is in a 
    	good-natured mood as she is very fond of her 
    	little brother and sister.
     
    57. 	CLOSE SHOT ON DAVE AND BOB:
     	While Bob continues to talk, Dave smilingly 
    	places his hand on Bob's shoulder as much as to 
    	say, "Well, Bob, old man, don't take things so 
    	much to heart."
     
    58. 	HEATH LIVING ROOM:
     	This shot shows the door leading into the 
    	kitchen, and also that leading to the side 
    	porch.  The twins are already seated and Mary, 
    	on the opposite side of the table, busies 
    	herself arranging the knives and forks.  Mrs. 
    	Heath comes from the kitchen, carrying in her 
    	hands a plate of meat which she places on the 
    	table.  Bob enters from side door, still 
    	carrying the packages which he had dropped in 
    	the side yard.  Mrs. Heath goes to meet him as 
    	he enters.
     
    59.	ANGLE BY SIDE PORCH:
    	Dave has finished washing his face and hands 
    	and now throws the water out of the small
    	tin basin he has been using.  Replacing the
    	basin, he rolls down his sleeves preparatory to 
    	entering the house.
     
    60. 	MEDIUM SHOT ON GROUP--HEATH LIVING ROOM:
     	Shooting toward the side door through which Bob 
    	has just entered. Mary, with her hand resting 
    	upon the back of one of the chairs at the table, 
    	looks at Bob as his mother talks to him.  As 
    	Mrs. Heath continues to talk, Bob turns and 
    	looks at Mary, his face wearing a scowl.  Dave 
    	is seen coming toward the side door.  Mrs. 
    	Heath says:
     
    SUBTITLE 8:--"John's sweater is done.  You can take 
    		it back to college with you, Bob."
     
    61.	CLOSE-UP ON MRS. HEATH AND BOB: 
    	As Mrs. Heath speaks title, Bob turns and looks 
    	sharply at Mary off scene.  On his face there 
    	is a look of grim determination.  Perhaps he 
    	can take John Trevor's sweater; but he is 
    	positive that he will do nothing of the kind. 
    	He does not intend to become anybody's errand 
    	boy.  Bob turns, looks at his mother, and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 9:--"Aw, let Mary take Trevor's sweater--
    		she's stuck on him, I'm not."
     
     	(Scene 61 continued.)  As Bob says this in a
    	disagreeable tone, Mrs. Heath, realizing that 
    	he is selfish, though not fully understanding 
    	why, looks at him wonderingly.  Then she 
    	places her hand on his shoulder affectionately 
    	and tries to coax him back into a better mood, 
    	but her effort has little effect on Bob.
     
    SUBTITLE 10:--John Trevor--_Lloyd Hughes_.
     
    62.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN--CLASS GAME:
     	This shot shows the athletic field of the 
    	college in Darienne.  John's shirt is torn 
    	almost to rags and his hair is disheveled, but 
    	he still holds down on the ground the college 
    	boy with whom he is contending in the class
     	games.  John looks up and smiles.  He is having 
    	a fine time, is thoroughly in earnest, and 
    	shows that he is a clean, good-natured young 
    	fellow.
     
    63.	MEDIUM SHOT ON CLASS GAME:
     	This shot shows a struggling mass of collegians 
    	engaged in the class game.  John starts to pick 
    	up one of the boys out of the melee and to carry 
    	him off the field which has been marked out for 
    	the contest.
     
    64. 	CLASS GAME:
     	This is a long shot of the class game. The 
    	contest still goes on furiously.  John has
    	picked up in his arms his particular opponent 
    	for the moment and is carrying him off the 
    	field.
     
    65.	CLASS GAME:
     	A still longer shot of the class game.  John 
    	carries his opponent outside the space marked 
    	off for the game and lays him on the ground.  
    	The referee stands near at hand ready to 
    	announce the winner of the contest.
     
    66.	GRANDSTAND--COLLEGE:
     	A flash of the college girls and boys as they 
    	rise from their seats and start to cheer.
     
    67.	CLASS GAME:
     	The referee raises his hand to announce that 
    	John's side has won the game. The victorious 
    	boys gather into a group and cheer at the 
    	referee's decision.
     
    68.	HEATH LIVING ROOM:
     	Dave, having entered the living room, goes to 
    	the twins and kisses them fondly, then helps 
    	his mother to a chair before he himself sits 
    	down.  Mary takes Bob's hat and places it on a  
    	chair to one side; while Bob, still looking 
    	sour, goes to the opposite side of the table 
    	and sits down.  Allow sufficient footage to 
    	show sharply the contrast between Dave and Bob
    	--the one of an affectionate disposition and 
    	content with even his hard lot of life; the 
    	other, selfish in the extreme, and lacking any 
    	real affection.
     
    69.	EXTERIOR HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Shooting from across the country road which 
    	runs in front of the Heath farmhouse. Martin 
    	Freeland enters in his classy roadster, stops 
    	the car in front of the gate, climbs out of the 
    	car, and enters the farmyard.  Martin has money, 
    	is well dressed, and appears to be satisfied 
    	with himself.
     
    70. 	ANGLE OF HEATH LIVING ROOM:
     	This shot includes the side of the table where 
    	Mrs. Heath and the twins are seated and shows 
    	Mary, whose place is at the end of the table 
    	nearest the door and with her back towards it.  
    	Martin comes on the side porch, stops for an 
    	instant, then opens the screen door and enters.  
    	He really feels so much superior to all of them 
    	in a way that he does not consider it necessary 
    	to remove the cap he is wearing.  Having said 
    	"How do you do," Martin stands to one side of 
    	the door, with his back resting against the 
    	wall.  As he enters, Mary turns and looks at 
    	him in a rather disinterested way.  Although he 
    	is rich and one of her most persistent suitors, 
    	Mary does not like him--she merely tolerates 
    	him through force of necessity.  Martin is very 
    	friendly with Dave and Mary; on this account, 
    	she could not snub him were she so disposed.
     
    SUBTITLE 11:--Martin Freeland, whose infatuation for 
    		Mary, and jealousy of John Trevor, keeps 
    		him hanging around the small town of 
    		Darienne.--_Philo McCollough_
     
    71.	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN:
     	Martin is laughing and talking.  Finally he
    	removes his cap, folds his arms with an air of 
    	self-assurance and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 12:--"I was just driving by. Anyone going to 
    		town?"
     
    	(Scene 71 continued.)  Martin finishes title 
    	and looks out of the corner of his eye toward 
    	Mary. His invitation is apparently a general
    	one, but it is Mary whom he wishes to ride into
    	town with him.
     
    72. 	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
     	Mary, none too pleased at the prospect of 
    	riding into Darienne with Martin, looks at him 
    	for a moment and then turns her head away and 
    	looks down at the table, trying to think of 
    	some excuse to offer him.
     
    73. 	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN:
     	A flash of Martin as he stands near the door 
    	smiling, waiting for Mary to make up her mind 
    	to accept his invitation.
     
    74.	ANGLE OF HEATH LIVING ROOM:
     	Mrs. Heath has heard Martin's invitation, but 
    	has not noted the fact that Mary does not care 
    	to accept it.  Mrs. Heath gets up from her chair 
    	and goes to where Martin is standing.  As she 
    	approaches, Martin moves forward slightly to 
    	meet her.  Mrs. Heath says:
     
    SUBTITLE 13:--"Mary's going--she'll be glad of the
    		lift."
     
    	(Scene 74 continued.)  Having spoken this title,  
    	Mrs. Heath turns and exits into the kitchen.   
    	Martin comes over to the chair where Mary is 
    	seated, rests his hand familiarly on the back 
    	of the chair and awaits her decision.
     
    75. 	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	Mary, still looking down at the table and 
    	thinking of some excuse to offer Martin, finally  
    	looks up, turns her head toward Martin and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 14:--"Don't bother about me.  I'll ride 
    		Bob's bicycle."
     
     	(Scene 75 continued.)  As she says this she
    	continues to look at Martin, hoping that he will 
    	not press his invitation.
     
    76. 	CLOSE-UP ON BOB:
    	Bob is about to take a bite of bread when he 
    	hears Mary speak the above title.  He looks 
    	sharply in Mary's direction, a disagreeable 
    	scowl wrinkling his forehead.
     
    77.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
     	Mary turns her head and looks toward Bob to see 
    	what effect her remark has had upon him.  
    	Although she knows Bob only too well to believe 
    	that he will let her use his bicycle, yet she 
    	is not positive that he will not consent to its 
    	use in the circumstances.
     
    78. 	CLOSE-UP ON BOB:
    	The selfish Bob is disgusted to think that Mary 
    	could have even thought of such a thing. If she 
    	goes, it will have to be with Martin. Bob says 
    	in no uncertain tones:
     
    SUBTITLE 15:-- You WILL not! Do you think I'm going 
    		to walk back?"
     
     	(Scene 78 continued.)  As he says this Bob's
    	face is clouded with displeasure.  He does not 
    	understand how Mary could be so selfish in a 
    	matter of this kind--the very idea of having 
    	to walk anywhere is repellent.
     
    79. 	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN:
     	Martin still stands there smiling facetiously. 
    	He is very glad that Bob has adopted such an 
    	attitude.  Mary will either have to walk or go 
    	with him in the roadster if she wants to go at 
    	all.
     
    80. 	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
     	Mary stares at Bob for a moment--it is beyond 
    	her comprehension why Bob is so consistently 
    	selfish and disagreeable.  Then she turns and 
    	looks at Martin in a helpless sort of way.  
    	Although she does not want to go with him, she 
    	sees nothing else to do.
     
    81. 	ANGLE OF HEATH LIVING ROOM:
     	Mrs. Heath enters to Mary and tells her to go 
    	take off her apron and put on her hat. Martin, 
    	seeing that he has an unwitting ally in Mrs. 
    	Heath, takes hold of Mary's chair to draw it 
    	away from the table as she gets up.
     
    82.	CLOSE SHOT ON MARY AND MARTIN--HEATH LIVING ROOM:
     	Martin leans down and urges Mary to hurry and 
    	get fixed up to go.  Reluctantly Mary rises 
    	from her chair.
     
    83. 	ANGLE OF HEATH LIVING ROOM:
     	Mary exits from scene to go to her room. Dave, 
    	having finished his meal, gets up from the 
    	table and starts toward Martin.
     
    84. 	MARY'S ROOM:
     	This shot shows the doorway, a dresser, and a 
    	table on which is a lamp of the Rochester 
    	burner type.  Mary enters through doorway, 
    	stands near dresser, and begins changing her 
    	dress.
     
    85. 	MEDIUM SHOT ON DAVE AND MARTIN--HEATH LIVING ROOM:
     	Dave now stands talking to Martin.  The latter 
    	says to him:
     
    SUBTITLE 16:--"I'm driving to New York tomorrow--
    		want to go?"
     
     	(Scene 85 continued.)  Martin's invitation is a 
    	genuine one.  He is very fond of the hard 
    	working Dave.  Dave smiles at Martin and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 17:--"I'd be glad of the chance.  I've got 
    		to go sometime this month."
     
    86. 	ANGLE OF HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	As Dave finishes the above title, Martin shows 
    	that he is very glad because of Dave's decision 
    	to accompany him.
     
    87. 	CLOSE SHOT ON MARY--HER ROOM: 
    	Mary, in her room, has taken off her apron and 
    	put on her hat. She opens the door and exits.
     
    88.	ANGLE OF HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	Dave goes to the twins, wipes off their faces 
    	with a napkin and starts to feed Patsy. Mary 
    	enters, kisses her mother good-bye, and exits 
    	with Martin through the door leading to the 
    	side porch.  As they go, Dave waves his hand to 
    	Martin, assuring him that he will be on hand to 
    	go to New York on the morrow.  Bob, not having 
    	finished lunch, is still sitting at the table.  
    	He does not indicate the slightest interest in 
    	anything that is taking place,  being too self-
    	centered and selfish to devote any real thought 
    	to the affairs of others--unless in the way of 
    	complaint.
     
    89.	EXTERIOR HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Shooting across the roadway as in the previous 
    	scene.  Martin and Mary come from house, climb 
    	into the roadster to drive into Darienne.
     
    90.	MEDIUM SHOT ON DAVE AND BOB: 
    	Dave has moved a chair close up to Bob's and 
    	now sits there talking to him.  Bob is  
    	scowling; but Dave is looking at him good-
    	naturedly, waiting to hear what he has to say.  
    	Although Bob is not actually interested in 
    	Mary's affairs, yet he feels that they form a 
    	good basis for a protest.  As he is in a mood 
    	to find fault with anything, he might as well 
    	choose this subject as any other. Bob says 
    	gravely as if he were announcing something of 
    	vital importance:
     
    SUBTITLE 18:--"Do you know that Mary sees John every 
    		time she goes to the college?"
     
    	(Scene 90 continued.)  Dave turns his head and 
    	looks off scene, smiling. To him, Bob's question 
    	sounds very funny. Bob is merely trying to make 
    	a mountain out of a mole hill. Dave knows that 
    	Bob has been in a very disgruntled mood ever 
    	since he fell off his bicycle, and is seizing 
    	upon this subject simply because he wants to 
    	protest about something.  Dave's usual method 
    	in handling Bob when he gets off on a streak 
    	of this kind is to laugh at him, but in a good-
    	natured way. The now laughing Dave turns and 
    	looks at Bob, then he says genially:
     
    SUBTITLE 19:--"What of it?  John sees Mary every time 
    		he comes out here."
     
     	(Scene 90 continued.)  Bob can find no ready
    	answer to Dave's counter question but is
    	satisfied that he is in the right, as usual. The
    	conditions seem to him to be entirely different, 
    	but Dave refuses to believe that they are so 
    	essentially different, as to warrant a protest 
    	on the part of anyone.  Bob is not wholly 
    	satisfied that Dave cannot see things in the 
    	same light as he does and continues to argue 
    	the matter with Dave, who does not believe 
    	there is anything to argue about.
     
    91.	COLLEGE GROUNDS:
    	This is a long shot of the college grounds, 
    	showing the college building in the background 
    	and trees in the foreground.  Mary and Martin, 
    	in the latter's roadster, drive into the scene.   
    	Martin stops the car, and Mary starts to get 
    	out to deliver the sweater to John Trevor.
     
    92.	GATEWAY TO COLLEGE GROUNDS:
    	This shot shows the entrance to the college
    	grounds.  To the right appears the brick
    	wall which surrounds the grounds.  A short 
    	distance from the base of this wall is a ledge 
    	upon which one may stand and look over the wall.  
    	John Trevor comes running into scene, goes 
    	through the gateway and looks off scene where he 
    	sees--
     
    93.	MEDIUM SHOT ON MARTIN'S ROADSTER:
     	Mary has just descended from the car. She 
    	thanks Martin for bringing her to town and 
    	then exits from scene, carrying a knitted 
    	handbag in which is the sweater intended for
    	John.  Martin very formally touches his hand 
    	to his cap as Mary leaves, but is none too 
    	pleased with the thought that she is leaving 
    	him and going to see John Trevor. As the two 
    	young men are rivals for Mary's hand and 
    	apparently she thinks more of John than she 
    	does of him, Martin not only does not like 
    	John but is intensely jealous of him.
     
    94. 	GATEWAY TO COLLEGE GROUNDS: 
    	John, standing near gateway, sees Mary coming 
    	and hastens to climb on the ledge of the wall 
    	so that he can see her as she approaches, and 
    	surprise her as she comes through the gateway.
     
    95.	CLOSE SHOT ON WALL:
     	Shooting from outside the college grounds 
    	toward the wall. Slowly John's head appears 
    	above the top of the wall as he watches Mary
    	coming up the brick walk which leads to the 
    	gateway.
     
    96.	BRICK WALL OUTSIDE OF COLLEGE GROUNDS: 
    	Mary is coming up the walk, carrying the 
    	knitted handbag which contains the sweater.
     
    97.	CLOSE SHOT ON WALL:
    	John smiles with delight as he sees Mary 
    	coming up the walk.
     
    98.	GATEWAY TO COLLEGE GROUNDS:
    	John has lowered his head so that Mary cannot 
    	see him but still stands on the ledge, awaiting 
    	her approach.  Mary enters scene and comes to 
    	gateway, wondering why John is not there to 
    	meet her as usual.  As she starts to pass 
    	through the gateway, John springs down from the 
    	ledge and runs out through the gateway to meet 
    	her.
     
    99. 	MEDIUM SHOT ON JOHN AND MARY: 
    	Mary is greatly surprised when John comes to 
    	her so quickly.  John laughs at her confusion 
    	then, taking her hand tenderly in his own, says:  
    	"Come on, let's go over there," and leads her 
    	out of the scene.
     
    100.	WALL OF COLLEGE GROUNDS:
     	This shot shows an archway, in front of which 
    	is a tree with a twisted trunk.  John and Mary 
    	enter scene through   archway and come to the 
    	tree in the foreground.  Both are a trifle ill 
    	at ease; but they are thoroughly in love with 
    	each other, and this fact renders them 
    	unnecessarily conscious of each other's 
    	presence.
     
    101.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND MARY:
    	John has his arm resting against one of the
    	trees; Mary is standing near the other.  John
    	is in a very happy frame of mind and looks 
    	devotedly at Mary as he says:
     
    SUBTITLE 20:--"Mary, my mother has come back
    		from Europe.  She arrived in New
    		York today..."
     
    102.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
     	As he says this, John's face fairly radiates 
    	happiness.
     
    103.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
     	Mary looks up at John and smiles because he is 
    	so happy.
     
    104.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John, wondering how Mary will receive the rest 
    	of the information he has to impart, looks at 
    	her questioningly as he says:
     
    SUBTITLE 21:--"... and tomorrow, I'm going home."
     
    	(Scene 104 continued.)  As he says this, John 
    	plainly shows the enthusiasm with which the 
    	idea has imbued him.  He is thinking solely of 
    	the fact that he is to see his mother again 
    	after a long absence.  This fact for the time 
    	being has made him forget that his going home 
    	will deprive him of his pleasure in seeing Mary
    	so often.
     
    105.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	Mary is smiling as John says the above title 
    	but soon its full import begins to dawn upon 
    	her.  She bites her lips; and the expression of 
    	happiness, that was on her face but a moment 
    	ago, changes to one of sadness. Now she realizes 
    	that after today it may be a long time before 
    	she will see John again.
     
    106.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John looks at Mary, sorry because a look of 
    	sadness has come into her face, yet secretly 
    	pleased that she loves him so dearly that she 
    	is sad when he is about to go away and leave 
    	her, if only for a little while.
     
    107.	MEDIUM SHOT ON JOHN AND MARY: 
    	Mary vainly tries to conceal her emotion. Her 
    	lips quiver and she struggles to keep back the 
    	tears.  Then, lest John see how sad she feels 
    	at the thought of losing him, she turns and 
    	exits from the scene.  With sober eyes, John 
    	watches her go, wondering just what he should 
    	do in the circumstances.
     
    108. 	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
     	With sober face John watches Mary go and then 
    	bursts into a low laugh.  Of course, he will 
    	come back soon to see her again.  She must not 
    	take this coming separation so much to heart.  
    	On this last day together, Mary must cheer up 
    	and rejoice in the happiness which is to come 
    	to him on the morrow.
     
    109. 	WALL ON VERANDA--COLLEGE GROUNDS:
     	This wall is a low one at the end of a veranda
     	of one of the college buildings.  Upon the
     	end of the wall there is a large concrete base,
     	placed there for ornamental purposes.  Mary
     	comes to the wall and stands there with bowed 
    	head.  Her heart is heavy at the thought of 
    	losing John, if only for a little while. John 
    	quickly comes to her side and tells her not to 
    	feel sorry as he will surely return soon to see 
    	her  again.  Placing his hands under Mary's 
    	arms, he lifts her up and seats her upon the 
    	wall. She places the sweater to one side and 
    	looks at him attentively, as he takes from one 
    	of his pockets a letter he has that day 
    	received from his mother. Taking the letter 
    	from the envelope, he gives the letter to Mary 
    	to read.
     
    110.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
     	Mary reads the letter and shows that she is 
    	glad of the happiness that is to be John's. To 
    	her the letter speaks of the great love of 
    	mother for son and she rejoices in the fact 
    	that John has a mother of whom he can feel so 
    	proud.
     
    111.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND MARY:
     	Mary has finished reading the letter and looks 
    	up at John; the light of devotion shining in 
    	her eyes.  The reading of the letter has made a 
    	great impression upon her, and she feels more 
    	proud than ever of the handsome boy standing 
    	beside her.  Surely, with such a lovely mother, 
    	a son must be more than worthy of the love of 
    	any girl whom he sees fit to choose as his 
    	partner in life.  Looking devotedly at John, 
    	Mary says:
     
    SUBTITLE 22:--"Your mother must be lovely."
     
    	(Scene 111 continued.)  As she says this, she 
    	returns the letter to John who replaces it in 
    	the envelope.
     
    112.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN: 
    	John looks up from the letter and vainly tries 
    	to find words to tell Mary how wonderful his 
    	mother is.  Then he says feelingly:
     
    SUBTITLE 23:--"I want your brother Dave to meet my 
    		mother."
     
    	(Scene 112 continued.)  As he says this title, 
    	he is a trifle embarrassed as to how he shall 
    	express the other thought he has in mind. 
    	Finally he looks earnestly at Mary and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 24:--"When he sees how wonderful she is, I 
    		know he'll let you visit us ...."
     
    113.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND MARY:
    	As he says the above title, he pauses as if not 
    	knowing what else to say; but Mary can read in 
    	his face just what he wishes to express to her, 
    	and cannot just now for lack of words. Demurely 
    	she turns her head aside as John comes closer 
    	to her, and then says to her earnestly:
     
    SUBTITLE 25:--"... If you want to, Mary..."
     
    	(Scene 113 continued.)  Mary turns her head and 
    	smiles delightedly at John, telling him that 
    	there is nothing else on earth that would give 
    	her greater pleasure than going to visit him 
    	and his mother.
     
    114.	WALL OF VERANDA--COLLEGE GROUNDS:
     	Mary takes the sweater from the knitted handbag 
    	and holds the sweater up in front of John, who 
    	shows how delighted he is with the gift.
     
    	(FADE OUT)
     
    115. 	(FADE IN ON)
     
    SUBTITLE 26:--To John, his mother had been abroad 
    		for three years ....
     
    	This title LAP DISSOLVES OUT into the following:
     
    SUBTITLE 27:--To those who "knew," Helene Trevor had 
    		never left the city.
    			--_Myrtle Stedman_ (FADE OUT)
     
    116.	CLOSE SHOT ON HELENE:  (FADE IN)
    	Helene is seated in a lounging chair in her 
    	magnificently furnished apartment, reading a 
    	letter she has this day received from her 
    	dearly loved son, John. 
    
    	INSERT: "Darling Mother:
    
    		No one in this world is happier 
    		than I am. It seems like an eternity 
    		since I've seen you, instead of three 
    		years. I can hardly wait to be with 
    		you tomorrow."
     
    117.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE:
    	Helene continues to read the letter; then, as 
    	she glances up, her face softens with emotion 
    	as she thinks of the fine, manly boy with whom 
    	she parted three years before. As she again 
    	begins to read the letter, her face lights up 
    	with happiness at the thought that tomorrow 
    	will see their reunion. If only conditions in 
    	her life were different, she could feel far 
    	happier.  As she thinks of these conditions, 
    	her face grows wistful and a pathetic look
    	comes into her eyes.
     
    SUBTITLE 28:--Just around the corner from Mrs. 
    		Trevor's apartment is one of the city's 
    		hidden Temples of Chance, known as 
    		"Helene's."
     
    118.	MAIN ROOM--GAMBLING DEN:
     	This luxuriously furnished establishment is well 
    	filled with men and women, most of them in 
    	evening clothes.  Night has come and the games 
    	are already in progress.  Some of the guests 
    	move around among the tables and some of them 
    	are seated, intent upon the games which they 
    	know, down deep in their hearts, they cannot 
    	possibly beat.  The lure of gambling has them 
    	all in its grip.  To and fro move some Chinese 
    	servants with noiseless tread, ready to serve 
    	refreshments to any who may wish them. The 
    	gambling den is a great money-maker, and can 
    	well afford to cater to its patrons.  Food and 
    	drink cost but little in comparison with the 
    	vast amount of money that is taken in nightly.
     
    119.	HELENE'S APARTMENT:
     	Shooting toward one of the alcoves of the 
    	apartment.  Helene comes into the alcove, where 
    	there is a telephone concealed in a handsome 
    	cabinet.
     
    120.	CLOSE SHOT ON HELENE--TELEPHONE CABINET:  
     	Helene sits in a chair in front of the cabinet 
    	from which she takes a telephone.  Having got 
    	the number she requested, she says:
     
    SUBTITLE 29:--"Tell Keenan I want to speak to him." 
    
    	(Scene 120 continued.)  After she says this, 
    	she sits there quietly, the telephone held 
    	close to her ear, waiting for Keenan to answer.
     
    121.	CLOSE SHOT ON KEENAN'S OFFICE:
     
    SUBTITLE 30:--Jim Keenan, manager and part owner of 
    		"Helene's."
     
     	This shot shows a desk and a chair in foreground 
    	and door to right.  Keenan enters through 
    	doorway, closes the door behind him, and picks 
    	up the telephone receiver from the desk where it 
    	had been left by the attendant who answered the 
    	phone.
     
    122.	CLOSE SHOT ON HELENE--TELEPHONE CABINET:
    	Helene, talking over telephone, says:
     
    SUBTITLE 31:--"I'll want to see you for a few minutes."
     
     	(Scene 122 continued.)  As she says this, she 
    	waits to hear what Keenan has to say.
     
    123.	CLOSE-UP ON KEENAN:
    	Keenan talks into phone. As the games are in 
    	progress and he wishes to be in the main room 
    	while they are going on, he is slightly annoyed 
    	at the fact that Helene has called him up. He 
    	asks her if his visit is a matter of any 
    	importance; and, when she states that it is, he 
    	agrees to come over at once.
     
    124.	CLOSE SHOT ON HELENE--TELEPHONE CABINET: 
    	Helene hears Keenan agree to come over at once.  
    	She hangs up the receiver. 
    
    125.	CLOSE SHOT ON KEENAN'S OFFICE: 
    	Keenan, having hung up the telephone receiver, 
    	takes his hat and coat from a hat-rack in rear 
    	of the desk and, with his coat slung over his 
    	arm, exits on the side opposite the door 
    	through which he entered.
     
    126.	MEDIUM SHOT ON HELENE--TELEPHONE CABINET:
    	Helene replaces the telephone in the cabinet 
    	and momentarily sits there thinking.  She has 
    	made up her mind what she intends to do but 
    	rather dreads the ordeal of her coming 
    	interview with Keenan.
     
    127. 	MEDIUM SHOT ON JOHN--COLLEGE ROOM: 
    	John is in the throes of packing up his things 
    	preparatory to going to New York on the morrow. 
    	The room is a typical college boy's room with 
    	pictures and pennants on the walls. John comes 
    	to table in foreground on which there is a 
    	framed photograph of his mother, takes up the 
    	photograph in both his hands and looks at it 
    	affectionately.  His face radiates happiness at 
    	the thought that on the morrow he will see his 
    	dearly beloved mother again.
     
    128.	CLOSE-UP ON FRAMED PHOTOGRAPH OF HELENE:
    	A flash of Helene's framed photograph.
     
    129.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN--COLLEGE ROOM: 
    	John raises photograph quickly to his lips and 
    	kisses it fondly, his face radiant with joy. 
    	Then takes the photograph toward dresser in 
    	back-ground.
     
    130.	JOHN'S ROOM AT COLLEGE:
    	Shooting toward dresser in background. John 
    	goes to dresser with photograph and for a 
    	moment stands there, wrapped in thought.
     
    131.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE AND KEENAN: 
    	Keenan has arrived at Helene's apartment and is 
    	standing near her as he asks her why she had 
    	sent for him in such haste.  He is not in a 
    	good humor at having been called away from the 
    	gambling den and is inclined to be pugnacious--
    	more so than usual.  Helene notes Keenan's ill-
    	humor but is determined to go through with her 
    	plan at all costs. Finally she says:
     
    SUBTITLE 32:--"I loathe this gambling business--I want 
    		to sell out!" 
    
    	(Scene 131 continued.)  As she says this, 
    	Keenan looks at her in sharp surprise and 
    	adopts a belligerent attitude toward her. Her 
    	proposition is a new one and he does not 
    	understand the motive behind it.  Pointing to 
    	himself, he says in a sarcastic tone:
     
    SUBTITLE 33:--"How about me--how about paying back 
    		the rest of the money your husband 
    		borrowed to start the business?" 
    
    	(Scene 131 continued.)  He does not care 
    	particularly about keeping her in the gambling 
    	business against her will, but wants to be 
    	assured that he will get every dollar coming to 
    	him.  As he speaks the above title, Helene 
    	slowly turns her head away and says:
    
    SUBTITLE 34:--"I have sent for my boy, I wanted him--
    		it's been three years--now I'm afraid 
    		he'll find out the truth."
     
    	(Scene 131 continued.)  As Helene says this, 
    	her face twitches with her intense emotion--
    	the business to her has become a nightmare; and 
    	now she is in mortal terror lest John discover 
    	the source of her income and cast her out of 
    	his life forever.  She realizes only too well 
    	how low in his estimation she would sink should 
    	he discover that he has been living off the 
    	misery of others.  Almost brought to the point 
    	of tears by her emotion, she slowly exits from 
    	the scene, leaving Keenan gazing after her 
    	intently, undecided just what to do.
     
    132.	MEDIUM SHOT ON DOORWAY--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
    	Helene goes to doorway and stands there, her 
    	head bowed down, wondering if Keenan will agree 
    	to the rupture of their business relations or 
    	whether he will insist upon her going on as in 
    	the past.  If Keenan refuses to let her sell 
    	out, the future looks dark indeed.
     
    133.	CLOSE-UP ON KEENAN: 
     	For a moment Keenan stands and watches Helene, 
    	then he exits toward the doorway where she is 
    	standing.  Perhaps he can argue her out of the 
    	idea she has in mind.
     
    134.	MEDIUM SHOT ON DOORWAY--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
    	Keenan enters to Helene. He is still not at all 
    	pleased with the idea that she wishes to 
    	withdraw from partnership in the gambling den.  
    	Finally Keenan says:
     
    SUBTITLE 35:--"The business has bought his clothes--
    		Kept him in college--but now that he's 
    		educated you want to get out!"
     
    135.	CLOSE-UP ON KEENAN:
    	Keenan speaks the above title in a tone of 
    	bitterness and sarcasm, watching Helene 
    	closely to see what effect it will have upon 
    	her.  He cannot understand her attitude at all
    	--to him the whole idea is merely the whim of a 
    	woman.
     
    136.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE:
    	As Helene hears Keenan's cutting remark, her 
    	face grows sad to think that circumstances ever  
    	forced her into becoming Keenan's partner in 
    	the nefarious business. She says wistfully:
     
    SUBTITLE 36:--"Sometimes I think John would rather 
    		have had me--than the money."
     
     	(Scene 136 continued.)  Although she says this 
    	as though some doubt existed in her mind yet, 
    	deep within her heart, she knows that John 
    	would far rather have never had a dollar than 
    	to have had an abundance derived from a 
    	gambling hell.  The thought of this makes her 
    	hang her head in shame.
     
    137.	CLOSE-UP ON KEENAN:
    	For a moment, Keenan looks thoughtful as if 
    	weighing things in the balance.  Perhaps after 
    	all it will be just as well if Helene does sell 
    	her interest in the gambling establishment to 
    	one of his choosing, since she seems determined 
    	to sell out anyhow.  Finally he says to her:
     
    SUBTITLE 37:--"What you say goes--but it'll take a 
    		couple of weeks to straighten things out."
     
    138.	MEDIUM SHOT ON DOORWAY--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
     	Since he has committed himself to the 
    	proposition of her selling out, Keenan assures 
    	her that he will have little difficulty in 
    	finding a purchaser for her interest in the 
    	place--it is only a matter of time.  Having so 
    	assured her, Keenan exits, leaving Helene 
    	standing there, wishing that somehow she might 
    	sell out that very night.  But she realizes 
    	the impossibility of this and turns her head 
    	sadly to one side. (FADE OUT) 
    
    		End of Sequence
     
    SUBTITLE 38: (FADE IN ON) 
    
    		The Homecoming
     
    139.	OUTER DOOR OF HELENE'S APARTMENT: 
    	This shot is taken from within the apartment, 
    	through an alcove which leads into a small 
    	reception hall in which, on a pedestal, there
    	is a bust of Pan and his pipes.  John has just
    	arrived, overcoat and grip in hand, and is
    	being met by Helene's butler.  The butler
    	takes John's grip, hat, and overcoat, and
    	having told him that he will at once announce 
    	his arrival, leaves John standing in the 
    	alcove and looking around, with admiring eyes, 
    	at the luxuriousness of his mother's apartment. 
    	His face lights up with gladness as he thinks of 
    	the joy of his homecoming, and he can scarcely 
    	wait until his beloved mother appears to greet 
    	him.
     
    140.	CLOSE SHOT ON DRESSING TABLE--HELENE'S ROOM:
     	Helene is seated in front of dressing table. 
    	The maid finishes arranging Helene's hair and 
    	then moves toward the door which shows in 
    	background, as she hears the butler knock. 
    	The maid opens door and the butler announces 
    	to Helene that John has come.  Helene gets up 
    	from the bench in front of the dressing table 
    	and smiles happily at the thought of the great 
    	joy in store for her.
     
    141.	JOHN'S SUITE OF ROOMS--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
    	Shooting from farther side of living room of 
    	John's suite so that door to bedroom shows in  
    	background.  The butler enters, places grip 
    	temporarily on a chair, and then exits into 
    	bedroom to hang up John's coat and hat.
     
    142.	MEDIUM SHOT ON ALCOVE--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
     	Shooting from alcove so that reception room of 
    	Helene's apartment shows beyond alcove. John's 
    	back is turned toward camera as he looks toward 
    	reception room, awaiting the coming of Helene.  
    	Presently he sees her approach and moves 
    	forward to meet her.
     
    143. 	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
     	John's face lights up with joy as he sees his 
    	mother coming.  Exclaiming "Mother!" he starts 
    	to hold out his arms to her as he moves forward 
    	to greet her.
     
    144.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE: 
     	For a moment Helene stands in reception room,
    	overcome with emotion as she sees her beloved 
    	boy.
     
    145.	RECEPTION ROOM--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
    	Shooting through reception room toward alcove.
    	Helene has her back to camera; John is facing 
    	it.  Both mother and son now stretch out their 
    	arms to each other as they move forward.
     
    146.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND HELENE: 
    	They gradually walk toward each other, and are 
    	soon clasped in each other's arms.
     
    147. 	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND HELENE: 
    	John and his mother stand there, clasped in 
    	each other's arms.  Then for a moment they
    	gaze happily at each other.  Hugging his mother 
    	tight in his strong arms, John kisses her 
    	fondly.  Then, as they stand there looking 
    	rapturously into each other's eyes, Helene 
    	says:
     
    SUBTITLE 39:--"How you have grown!"
     
    	(Scene 147 continued.)  As she says this her 
    	face lights up with admiration for the handsome, 
    	manly-looking boy before her.  John is a trifle  
    	embarrassed but soon finds his voice, and says 
    	laughingly:
     
    SUBTITLE 40:--"A fellow does grow, some in three 
    		years!"
     
    	(Scene 147 continued.)  As he says this, they 
    	both laugh gaily; and John, wholly carried away 
    	by the happiness of this reunion, cannot resist 
    	the desire to hug his mother close to his 
    	breast again. (FADE OUT) 
    
    		End of Sequence
     
    SUBTITLE 41. (FADE IN ON:) 
    
    		The promised visit to meet John's mother.
     
    148.	EXTERIOR APARTMENT BUILDING:
    	Shooting from street so as to show the entrance 
    	to the apartment building, which is the one 
    	where Helene lives.  Dave and Martin enter in 
    	the latter's roadster.  Martin stops the 
    	machine in front of the building, and Dave 
    	partly rises in his seat.
     
    149.	CLOSE SHOT ON DAVE AND MARTIN:
    	Dave starts to climb out of car, then pauses 
    	and says to Martin:
     
    SUBTITLE 42:--"Come on! I promised John I'd stop and 
    		meet his mother."
     
    	(Scene 149 continued.)  Martin looks at Dave, 
    	agrees to go in, gets out of car, and together 
    	they walk toward entrance to the apartment 
    	building.
     
    150.	RECEPTION ROOM--HELENE'S APARTMENT: 
    	John and Helene come to table in foreground and 
    	stand there talking.
     
    151.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND HELENE: 
    	Still talking, John and Helene stand near table.
    	Helene points out to John some of the objects 
    	lying on the table.
     
    152.	MEDIUM SHOT ON OUTER DOOR--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
    	Shooting from hall way of apartment building 
    	toward the outer door of Helene's apartment. 
    	Dave and Martin enter scene.  Dave starts to 
    	knock on door, but Martin points out the bell
    	which Dave now rings.  The butler comes and 
    	opens the door.  They tell him who they are.  
    	As the butler asks them to step in, they 
    	remove their hats and enter the small 
    	reception hall.
     
    153.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND HELENE:
     	John and Helene are still talking when John's 
    	attention is attracted by the entrance of Dave 
    	and Martin.  Turning his head and looking off 
    	scene, John sees--
     
    154.	MEDIUM SHOT ON ALCOVE--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
    	The butler is escorting Dave to foreground, 
    	followed by Martin.  Dave stands in alcove, 
    	smiling as he sees John.
     
    155.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND HELENE: 
    	John tells his mother who the visitors are and 
    	then starts forward to meet them.
     
    156.	MEDIUM SHOT ON ALCOVE--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
    	As John enters scene, Dave starts forward to 
    	meet him with outstretched hand.  They shake 
    	hands cordially.
     
    157.	CLOSE SHOT ON HELENE:
    	Helene, looking off scene, stands watching group 
    	in alcove.
     
    158.	CLOSE SHOT ON ALCOVE--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
     	For a moment John stands talking, telling Dave 
    	how glad he is to see him. Then, with his hand 
    	affectionately holding Dave's arm, John leads 
    	him forward.  Dave, dressed in clothes such as 
    	a farmer boy in his circumstances in life might 
    	wear, is visibly impressed with the 
    	magnificence of what he sees and is slightly 
    	embarrassed.
     
    159.	CLOSE SHOT ON HELENE:
    	Helene awaits their approach as John leads Dave 
    	forward by the arm.  Martin follows slightly in 
    	the rear.  As John and Dave come to where 
    	Helene stands, John says proudly:
     
    SUBTITLE 43:--"This is Dave Heath.  He's my best 
    		friend and--he's Mary's brother."
     
    160.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE, JOHN, AND DAVE:
     	John stands there smiling genially as Helene 
    	shakes hands cordially with Dave, telling him 
    	of the genuine pleasure she feels in making 
    	his acquaintance.  Martin, having followed 
    	Dave, is waiting close by to be introduced to 
    	John's mother, but does not appear in scene.
     
    161.	MEDIUM SHOT ON GROUP--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
     	As Helene finishes shaking hands with Dave, 
    	John introduces Martin who bows very 
    	ceremoniously.
     
    162.	CLOSE-UP ON DAVE AND MARTIN:
    	Martin is still bowing, his hand on vest of
    	dinner suit.  Martin now moves closer to
    	Helene, looking off scene at her intently.
     
    163.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND HELENE:
     	Helene is still smiling a welcome to John's 
    	visitors when Martin moves forward and looks 
    	searchingly into her face.  John moves out of 
    	scene to talk to Dave.  Martin says to Helene 
    	pointedly:
     
    SUBTITLE 44:--"Haven't I met you before?"
     
     	(Scene 163 continued.)  As this title is shown, 
    	there DISSOLVES INTO it a roulette layout. The 
    	rake of a croupier reaches out and draws in the 
    	chips which are seen lying on the table.
     
    164.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE AND MARTIN: 
    	Martin still looks at Helene searchingly. 
    	Helene is embarrassed at his question and 
    	momentarily turns her head away, as if to 
    	gather her wits together.  Not to be so easily 
    	trapped, she turns, looks Martin straight in 
    	the eye; and, although stammering slightly in 
    	her confusion, says:
     
    SUBTITLE 45:--"I--I think not. I've been abroad for 
    		three years."
     
    	(Scene 164 continued.)  As she finishes title, 
    	Martin again looks at her sharply.  He does not 
    	believe her at all.  Then he turns his head to 
    	one side and smiles sardonically as John enters 
    	scene, and starts to talk to him. John's 
    	approach has relieved the tenseness of a very 
    	embarrassing moment.
     
    165.	ANGLE OF RECEPTION ROOM--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
    	Shooting toward a divan which appears in the 
    	background.  John asks them all to come and sit 
    	on the divan. As John starts to lead Helene 
    	away, she turns toward Martin, telling him to 
    	help himself to the cigarettes lying on the 
    	table near him.
     
    166.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE AND MARTIN: 
    	As Helene starts to move away, she suddenly 
    	stops and looks at Martin over her shoulder. 
    	Her mind is greatly agitated at the thought 
    	that Martin has actually recognized her for 
    	what she is.  She looks at him intently,
    	wondering what he intends to do.  Martin
    	turns to table to get a cigarette, and does 
    	not see Helene's questioning look.
     
    167.	CLOSE SHOT ON HELENE AND MARTIN:
    	Helene starts to move toward divan in rear, 
    	where John and Dave are already waiting. As 
    	soon as she is seated on divan, John and Dave 
    	sit down beside her.  Martin lights a cigarette 
    	and turns to watch her as she moves toward 
    	divan.  In his own mind he is almost certain 
    	that he knows who she is and where he has seen 
    	her.  Now Martin turns and walks toward where 
    	the others are seated.
     
    168.	MEDIUM SHOT ON KEENAN'S OFFICE:
    	Keenan's desk is in the foreground.  He is 
    	seated behind it talking earnestly to a 
    	prospective purchaser of Helene's interest in 
    	the gambling den.  This man is familiarly 
    	seated on the corner of Keenan's desk and is 
    	deliberating whether to buy or not.  Keenan 
    	continues to argue the matter and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 46:--"This is a good chance for you--
    		Helene's anxious to sell out."
     
    	(Scene 168 continued.)  As the man hears this 
    	subtitle, he indicates that perhaps the 
    	proposition would be an agreeable one to him 
    	provided Keenan continued as manager.
     
    169.	CLOSE SHOT ON OUTER DOOR -- HELENE'S APARTMENT:
    	Martin and Dave are just leaving. John has 
    	accompanied them to the door.  As they pause in  
    	hallway, John cordially shakes Dave's hand, 
    	expressing the wish that he will see him again 
    	soon.  Martin places his hand on Dave's 
    	shoulder, urging him along: as there is much 
    	that he wishes to show him. Many are the 
    	interesting sights that he must see before his 
    	return to Darienne.  As Martin and Dave exit 
    	down the hall, John stands for a moment, 
    	watching them go, and then re-enters the 
    	apartment.  Because of his interest in Mary,  
    	John also feels a vital interest in Dave.   
    	Allow sufficient footage here to emphasize  
    	contrast between the parting of John and Dave, 
    	and the tragic scenes that are enacted later--
    	when John discovers his friend Dave stretched 
    	out dead on the floor of the gambling den, the 
    	unwitting victim of an assassin's bullet.
     
    170.	EXTERIOR APARTMENT BUILDING--NIGHT:
    	Dave and Martin have already come from the 
    	apartment building and are seated in Martin's 
    	roadster, prepared to drive around and see the 
    	town. Martin starts car and they drive away.
     
    171.	CLOSE-UP ON DIVAN--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
    	John and Helene are discovered on divan, 
    	talking.  Clasping his mother's hands in his
     	own, John sits there telling her about much of 
    	his college life during the past three years 
    	and waiting, in a rather embarrassed manner, 
    	for his mother to broach the subject of Mary--
    	the subject nearest his heart.  Like most 
    	young men in love, he is very anxious to get
    	his mother's approval of the girl of his 
    	choice; but is waiting for Helene to lead up 
    	to this subject.
     
    172.	EXTERIOR CAFE--NIGHT:
    	Dave and Martin enter in roadster.  As Martin 
    	stops the car in front of entrance to 
    	restaurant, Dave alights. Then Martin drives 
    	the car out of scene to park it farther up the 
    	street.   Dave starts to follow, thinking that 
    	Martin is about to leave him to enter cafe 
    	alone; but Martin re-enters scene and joins 
    	Dave.  As they stand together on the sidewalk, 
    	Martin says:
     
    SUBTITLE 47:--"This is the classiest cafe in town."
     
    	(Scene 172 continued.)  As Martin speaks this 
    	title, they move toward entrance of cafe and 
    	enter.
     
    173.	LOBBY OF CAFE:
    	Shooting from front of lobby toward small 
    	hallway which joins lobby and main dining room.  
    	Dave and Martin enter and move to rear.  Dave  
    	is overjoyed to think of the wonderful sights 
    	he is to see under Martin's guidance, and is 
    	slightly embarrassed but much impressed with 
    	his surroundings. As they move to rear, Dave 
    	almost knocks over a miniature ship which is 
    	on a table in middleground.  Martin is 
    	thoroughly at home in this cafe; but to Dave 
    	it is all new, and he is manifestly out of 
    	place.  As they reach rear of lobby, one of 
    	the head waiters joins them, and invites them 
    	to come in dining room for dinner; but Martin 
    	indicates that they have only come to look, 
    	and will dine later.
     
    174.	DINING ROOM OF CAFE:
    	Shooting from rear of dining room toward stage 
    	in foreground.  A large crowd of diners is 
    	present.  The curtain rises and the cabaret
    	entertainment is about to begin.
     
    175.	CLOSE-UP ON DAVE AND MARTIN:
    	They are standing in rear of lobby from which 
    	they can look into dining-room, and see stage 
    	upon which the cabaret entertainment is about 
    	to take place.  As the curtain raises, Dave's 
    	eyes open wide with interest in what he sees.  
    	Martin, accustomed to this sort of thing, 
    	smiles indulgently at his friend's evident 
    	interest.
     
    176.	DINING ROOM OF CAFE:
    	Down a ramp constructed on the stage, a girl 
    	comes sliding on a sled.  Then a troop of 
    	cabaret girls come dancing on the stage, which 
    	is covered with imitation snow to represent a 
    	winter scene, the girls being dressed in fur 
    	trimmed short dresses.  The scene is one of 
    	gaiety and merriment.
     
    177.	CLOSE-UP ON DAVE AND MARTIN:
    	Dave is entranced. He turns to Martin and tells 
    	him how interesting it all is.  Martin smiles 
    	as he is used to cafe scenes of this kind.
     
    178.	DINING ROOM OF CAFE:
    	The girls on the stage pick up imitation
    	snowballs and begin to throw them at the 
    	diners.
     
    179.	LOBBY OF CAFE:
    	Dave is anxious to go into the dining-room 
    	where he will be closer to the scenes of 
    	gaiety; but Martin says no--there are many 
    	other places he wishes to show him.  As they 
    	stand there some of the imitation snowballs 
    	come rolling in at their feet.
     
    180.	DINING ROOM OF CAFE:
    	The girls and the men diners are having a 
    	wonderful time throwing imitation snowballs 
    	at each other.
     
    181.	CLOSE-UP ON DAVE AND MARTIN:
    	Dave is more excited than ever and wants 
    	Martin to go into the dining-room, so they can 
    	take part in the festivities; but Martin demurs
    	and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 48:--"We'll come back  later--I've many more 
    		places to show you."
     
    	(Scene 181 continued.)  Dave is disappointed 
    	because Martin wants to go but the latter is 
    	insistent.
     
    182.	LOBBY OF CAFE:
    	Martin takes Dave's arm, tells him to come 
    	along, and together they start to move toward 
    	front of lobby.
     
    183.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND HELENE: 
    	John and Helene are still seated on divan,
    	talking.  Helene looks at him devotedly and
    	says: 
     
    SUBTITLE 49:--"Tell me about--Mary."
     
     	(Scene 183 continued.)  John is slightly 
    	embarrassed and does not know just how to 
    	begin; but, knowing that he has a most 
    	sympathetic listener, promptly gets over his 
    	embarrassment and launches himself 
    	wholeheartedly into telling Helene all about 
    	the girl of his heart.
     
    184.	EXTERIOR GAMBLING DEN--NIGHT: 
    	Shooting from sidewalk toward entrance of 
    	gambling den.  Dave and Martin enter scene and 
    	stand on sidewalk near entrance. Martin says:
     
    SUBTITLE 50:--"I want you to see this place.  It's 
    		the biggest gambling house in the city." 
    
    185.	MEDIUM SHOT ON DAVE AND MARTIN--NIGHT: 
    	Dave and Martin are still standing on the 
    	sidewalk near the entrance to the gambling
    	den as Martin speaks the above title.  
    	Together they start to walk toward the 
    	entrance.
     
    186.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND HELENE: 
    	Still seated on the divan, John is telling his 
    	mother all about Mary.  Helene sympathetically  
    	puts her arm on John's shoulder, assuring him 
    	of the great pleasure she feels because he has 
    	learned to love so worthy a girl.
     
    187.	MAIN ROOM--GAMBLING DEN:
    	Shooting from front of main room toward archway 
    	in rear.  The scene is one of great animation.   
    	Men and women players are present in 
    	considerable number, and the games are in full 
    	swing.  Dave and Martin enter foreground and 
    	move to rear, Dave much interested in the 
    	novelty of the sights he is witnessing.  Having 
    	led a life of toil far from the whirl of the 
    	city, he had never even dreamed that such a 
    	place as this was in existence.
     
    188.	CLOSE SHOT ON KEENAN'S OFFICE: 
    	Keenan is discovered at telephone, talking to 
    	Helene.
     
    189.	ALCOVE IN HELENE'S APARTMENT: 
    	Shooting toward telephone cabinet in background.  
    	Helene is seated in front of cabinet, answering 
    	phone.
     
    190.	CLOSE SHOT ON KEENAN'S OFFICE: 
    	Keenan, talking in phone, says:
     
    SUBTITLE 51:--"Can you come over at once--I have a 
    		buyer for the place."
     
    191.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE:
    	Helene protests against coming over just then, 
    	as she does not want to leave John. She asks 
    	Keenan if he cannot conduct the negotiations.
     
    192.	CLOSE SHOT ON KEENAN'S OFFICE: 
    	Keenan, still talking over the phone, says 
    	decisively:
     
    SUBTITLE 52:--"He insists on seeing YOU."
     
    	(Scene 192 continued.)  Keenan indicates that 
    	there is nothing else for her to do but come 
    	over and conduct her own negotiations, if she 
    	still  desires to sell her interest in the 
    	place.
    
    193.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE:
    	Helene does not want to go at that time but 
    	sees no way out of going.  She hangs up the 
    	receiver, replaces the phone in the cabinet, 
    	and sits there momentarily thinking up some 
    	excuse to offer John to account for her going 
    	out at that time unaccompanied.
     
    194.	ROULETTE WHEEL AND TABLE:
    	The wheel is spinning and the banker stands 
    	watching to see into what numbered pocket the 
    	ball will fall.  At one end of the table upon 
    	which are painted the numbers corresponding to 
    	those on the wheel, stands The Waster, a 
    	dissolute young man.  Seated near him is his 
    	girl, who has entered the gambling den with 
    	him. The Waster's money is almost gone; and,  
    	as he stands there nervously fingering his 
    	chips, he watches the wheel intently.
     
    195.	MEDIUM SHOT ON ROULETTE TABLE:
    	As The Waster realizes that he has again lost, 
    	he passes his hand over his forehead in a dazed 
    	sort of way.  Ruination faces him. The girl 
    	reaches over and squeezes his hand as if to 
    	reassure him, but The Waster feels helpless as 
    	he looks down and fingers the few chips that 
    	remain.
     
    SUBTITLE 53:--A fool--and the last of his money.
     
    196. 	ROULETTE WHEEL AND TABLE:
     	The girl places some chips on one of the 
    	numbers.  The Waster watches intently as the 
    	wheel spins swiftly around.
     
    197.	CLOSE SHOT ON ROULETTE TABLE:
    	Both The Waster and the girl are watching the 
    	spinning wheel intently as Dave and Martin 
    	enter scene.  They stop near end of table. 
    	Dave is greatly interested in the wheel, and 
    	stands close to The Waster and the girl to see 
    	what is going on.  As The Waster nervously 
    	fumbles in his pocket for a match, Dave sees 
    	him and, taking a match from his own pocket, 
    	graciously lights The Waster's cigarette.  
    	While this action is going on, Martin quietly 
    	moves on out of the scene.
     
    198.	OVAL ARCHWAY IN GAMBLING DEN: 
    	Martin is discovered standing in the archway. 
    	He beckons to Dave to come along and see the 
    	rest of the establishment.
     
    199.	MEDIUM SHOT ON ROULETTE TABLE:
     	Dave sees Martin beckon to him and exits.
     
    200.	OUTER DOOR--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
     	Shooting from the inside of the apartment. 
    	Helene already has her coat on and, accompanied 
    	by John, comes to the door. John opens the door 
    	for her and together they stand there, Helene's 
    	hands resting affectionately on John's arms.  
    	John asks her to let him accompany her; but 
    	she says:
     
    SUBTITLE 54:--"No, dear, you stay here--I'm only 
    		going around the corner."
     
    	(Scene 200 continued.)  As this title appears 
    	there DISSOLVES INTO it a spinning roulette 
    	wheel and the table upon which the bets are 
    	placed.  Helene, naturally, does not attempt 
    	to explain where "around the corner" is.  Her 
    	statement is the literal truth--that is all.
     
    201.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND HELENE:
    	Helene kisses John goodbye. He smiles down at 
    	her and then hugs her tight to him, reluctant 
    	to let her go, if only for a little while. 
    	Helene exits through doorway; and John stands 
    	there, watching her go down the hall.
     
    202.	OUTER DOOR--HELENE'S APARTMENT: 
    	John watches Helene go down the hall and then 
    	closes the door.
     
    203.	CORNER OF ROULETTE TABLE:
    	The game still goes on.  Another man has come 
    	to the table and has taken the place beside The 
    	Waster's girl.  Upon one of the numbers, the 
    	man has placed a large number of chips.  He 
    	wins and the banker pays him a stack of bank 
    	notes.  The Waster's girl has been watching 
    	this play; and, when she sees that the man has 
    	won, she looks up at him with an alluring 
    	smile.  As the man gathers up his winnings and 
    	starts to leave the table, he nods to the girl, 
    	inviting her to follow him. Unobserved by The 
    	Waster, the girl quietly slips away from the  
    	table and follows.
     
    204.	KEENAN'S OFFICE:
     	Keenan is discovered at the door and greets 
    	Helene as she enters. The prospective buyer is  
    	introduced to Helene and bows at the 
    	introduction.  Then Helene sits down near the 
    	desk and starts to unfasten her coat.
     
    205.	CLOSE SHOT ON ROULETTE TABLE:
     	The Waster has staked the last of his chips 
    	and is gazing fixedly at the wheel.
     
    206.	CLOSE-UP ON THE WASTER:
     	Again The Waster has lost.  With staring eyes 
    	he watches the banker rake in the chips. Dazed 
    	by the realization that he is ruined, The 
    	Waster aimlessly puts his hand to his forehead.  
    	Suddenly he turns to speak to the girl and 
    	finds her gone.  Swiftly he turns his head in 
    	the opposite direction and sees--
     
    207.	CLOSE-UP ON MAN AND GIRL:
    	The man, who has just won the stack of bank 
    	notes, is standing in the archway with the 
    	girl, just above the steps that lead down to 
    	the main room of the gambling den.  The man is 
    	offering the girl some money.
     
    208.	CLOSE-UP ON THE WASTER:
     	The Waster's face is clouded with rage as he 
    	sees the man offer money to the girl.
     
    209.	CLOSE-UP ON MAN AND GIRL:
    	The man gives the girl a handful of bills, 
    	then leans down and whispers something close to 
    	her ear.  She smiles up at him coyly, 
    	acquiescing in what he has asked her.
     
    210.	CLOSE-UP ON THE WASTER:
    	The Waster, wholly beside himself with rage, 
    	rushes from the scene.
     
    211.	MEDIUM SHOT ON ARCHWAY:
    	The man is still talking to the girl when The 
    	Waster rushes into the scene, furiously 
    	determined to break up this affair.
     
    212.	CLOSE-UP ON GROUP:
    	The Waster shoves the man backward and then 
    	turns wrathfully to the girl, demanding to 
    	know who the man is and what she intends to do.  
    	The girl is defiant; does not answer The 
    	Waster, but slowly walks away with a very bored 
    	expression on her face.  More furious than ever,  
    	The Waster grabs her viciously by the arm and 
    	takes the money away from her.
     
    213.	MEDIUM SHOT ON ARCHWAY:
    	The man, having recovered his balance after The 
    	Waster had pushed him out of the scene, comes 
    	back to where The Waster and the girl are still 
    	standing, determined to protect her against the 
    	younger man's violence.  The Waster suddenly 
    	turns upon the man and slaps him full in the 
    	face.  Infuriated by this blow, the man hits 
    	The Waster a stinging blow and knocks him, 
    	staggering backward, down the steps.
     
    214.	CLOSE SHOT ON ROULETTE TABLE:
     	The Waster comes stumbling backward into the 
    	roulette table, his eyes flaming with fury. 
    	Then he quickly reaches toward his hip pocket 
    	for his revolver, determined to kill.
     
    215.	MEDIUM SHOT ON ARCHWAY:
    	Wholly unmindful of danger, the man stands in 
    	the archway talking to the girl.  Dave and 
    	Martin enter the archway and stand there for a 
    	moment.  Dave, unaware of the fact that Death 
    	is hovering close at hand, is directly 
    	between The Waster and the man with whom he has 
    	quarrelled.
     
    216.	CLOSE SHOT ON GROUP AROUND ROULETTE TABLE:
    	The Waster draws his pistol and fires blindly.
     
    217.	CLOSE-UP ON DAVE:
    	The bullet strikes Dave close to the heart. On 
    	his face comes a look of surprise as, for the 
    	instant, he does not realize what has struck 
    	him.
     
    218.	CLOSE-UP ON THE WASTER:
    	The Waster looks upon the scene with horror 
    	written on his face.  Terrified he raises his 
    	hand to his forehead; and his eyes almost 
    	start from their sockets as, like one 
    	entranced, he watches Dave, the innocent 
    	victim of his fury.
     
    219.	CLOSE-UP ON DAVE:
    	Gradually to Dave comes the realization that he  
    	is shot and mortally  wounded. Slowly he puts 
    	his hand inside his coat, close to his heart.   
    	Then his head tips back, he totters, and begins 
    	to fall.
     
    220.	MAIN ROOM--GAMBLING DEN:
    	This shot shows the archway in the background.  
    	Dave reels and falls backward down the steps, 
    	dead.
     
    221.	CLOSE-UP ON THE WASTER:
    	A flash of The Waster as he realizes what he 
    	has done.
     
    222.	FOOT OF STEPS LEADING TO ARCHWAY: 
    	Dave is lying face down.  Martin turns his body 
    	over and realizes that he is dead.
     
    223.	CLOSE SHOT ON THE WASTER:
    	Horrified at the enormity of his crime, The 
    	Waster places his pistol against his side.
     
    224.	FOOT OF STEPS LEADING TO ARCHWAY: 
    	A flash of  Martin  kneeling beside Dave's 
    	body.
     
    225.	CLOSE-UP ON THE WASTER:
    	Quickly The Waster pulls the trigger.  His face 
    	takes on a look of agony as he topples out of 
    	the scene, dead.
     
    226.	FOOT OF STEPS LEADING TO ARCHWAY:
    	Martin is still kneeling beside Dave's body 
    	when Keenan enters and sees what has taken 
    	place.  Martin hurriedly gets up and exits 
    	from the scene to go for John Trevor.
     
    227.	MAIN ROOM--GAMBLING DEN:
    	The crowd of gamblers, realizing that a double 
    	tragedy has taken place, begins a wild 
    	struggle to get out before the arrival of the 
    	police.
     
    228.	EXTERIOR GAMBLING DEN--NIGHT:
    	Martin, hatless, rushes excitedly out of the 
    	gambling den and, for a moment, pauses on the 
    	sidewalk, uncertain what direction to take to 
    	go to Helene's apartment.  Then he exits 
    	hurriedly.
     
    229.	MEDIUM SHOT ON DESK--POLICE STATION:
    	A police sergeant is sitting behind desk, 
    	making entries in a ledger, when the phone 
    	rings.  The sergeant takes down receiver and 
    	answers phone.
     
    230.	MEDIUM SHOT ON STEPS LEADING TO ARCHWAY:
    	Keenan, satisfied that Dave is beyond medical 
    	aid, gets up from a kneeling position beside 
    	Dave's body and hurriedly exits so as to get 
    	outside before the arrival of the police.  The
    	crowd is still struggling to get out and many 
    	are panic stricken.
     
    231.	CORNER OF APARTMENT BUILDING--NIGHT:
    	This is the corner of the building in which
    	Helene's apartment is situated.  Martin, on
    	his way to get John, runs into scene, turns 
    	corner, and exits.
     
    232.	EXTERIOR APARTMENT BUILDING--NIGHT:
    	Martin enters on the run and goes into 
    	apartment.
    
    233.	MAIN ROOM--GAMBLING DEN: 
    	The crowd, verging on panic, mills back and 
    	forth.  Every minute is bringing certain 
    	arrest nearer and nearer.
     
    234.	EXTERIOR POLICE STATION--NIGHT: 
    	Police automobiles drive up to the curb and,
     	as fast as they are filled with policemen, 
    	exit.
     
    235.	RECEPTION ROOM--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
    	Shooting toward alcove and outer door of 
    	apartment.  John is discovered in an easy 
    	chair, reading, as the butler lets Martin in. 
    	Martin is almost breathless with excitement 
    	and exertion.  As he hurries to John, the 
    	latter rises from his chair, realizing that
    	something must be wrong; but wholly in the 
    	dark as to what it is.
     
    236.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND MARTIN: 
    	Martin grasps John's arms and says:
    
    SUBTITLE 55:--"Dave's shot--killed!"
     
    	(Scene 236 continued.)  As Martin says this, 
    	the two turn and hurry toward outer door of 
    	Helene's apartment.
     
    237.	MAIN ROOM--GAMBLING DEN:  
    	Shooting toward alcove leading from main floor 
    	of gambling  den.  As the crowd is struggling 
    	to get out, the police enter alcove and come 
    	down the steps into midst of crowd. 
    
    238.	EXTERIOR APARTMENT BUILDING-NIGHT:
    	A flash of John and Martin as they come out of 
    	the apartment building and start running along 
    	the street.
     
    239.	MAIN ROOM--GAMBLING DEN:
    	The panic-stricken crowd is still struggling 
    	wildly to escape the clutches of the law; but 
    	the police are restraining them with none-too-
    	gentle hands.
     
    240.	CORNER OF APARTMENT BUILDING--NIGHT: 
    	A flash of John and Martin as they come running 
    	up the street and turn the corner.
     
    241.	CLOSE SHOT ON KEENAN'S OFFICE: 
    	Helene is still seated near desk. Negotiations 
    	have been concluded. The prospective buyer of 
    	her interest in the establishment has his hat 
    	in hand, preparatory to leaving.  The buyer 
    	says to Helene:
     
    SUBTITLE 56:--"I'll be back in half an hour with the 
    		money."
     
    	(Scene 241 continued.)  As he finishes this
    	title he puts on his hat and exits through door 
    	on left.
     
    242.	CLOSE-UP ON TWO POLICEMEN:
    	One of the policemen is the lieutenant in 
    	charge of the detail sent to the gambling den; 
    	the other is a patrolman.  The lieutenant says 
    	to the patrolman:
     
    SUBTITLE 57:--"Get Keenan!"
     
    	(Scene 242 continued.)  The patrolman raises 
    	his hand in acknowledgment of his superior's 
    	orders and exits.
     
    243.	MAIN ROOM--GAMBLING DEN:
    	The crowd is still struggling wildly to escape. 
    	Some of them are being roughly handled by the 
    	police.
     
    244.	FOOT OF STEPS LEADING TO ARCHWAY: 
    	Dave is still lying on the floor where he fell 
    	but his face has been partly covered up with a 
    	coat.
     
    245.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John's face twitches with emotion as he looks 
    	down and sees his friend lying dead at his feet.   
    	The shock is so great that he can scarcely 
    	believe what he sees.
     
    246.	FOOT OF STEPS LEADING TO ARCHWAY: 
    	John sorrowfully drops to one knee beside 
    	Dave's body.  The police lieutenant moves 
    	forward and stands near John.
     
    247.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND MARTIN: 
    	John is almost beside himself with grief. He 
    	can scarcely realize the awfulness of the 
    	tragedy which has taken place.  Shaken with
    	emotion he turns to Martin and says pitiful in 
    	a voice:
     
    SUBTITLE 58:--"Why did he come here--how did it 
    		happen?"
      
    	(Scene 247 continued.)  Martin stammeringly 
    	starts to explain as he realizes that he is 
    	indirectly responsible for Dave's death in 
    	bringing him to a place such as this.
     
    248.	CLOSE SHOT ON KEENAN'S OFFICE:
    	Helene has arisen from her chair near the desk 
    	and is about to put on her coat when she turns 
    	and sees patrolman who is entering through door 
    	opposite that through which prospective buyer 
    	left the office.  Helene's eyes open wide with 
    	surprise as she cannot even guess the object of 
    	the officer's visit. The patrolman glances 
    	around, looking for Keenan; and, having assured 
    	himself that Keenan is not there, says to 
    	Helene:
     
    SUBTITLE 59:--"There's been a murder and a suicide in 
    		there!"
     
    249.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE:
    	As she hears the above title, Helene almost 
    	loses control of herself.  Her face is terror
    	stricken as she realizes what a terrible
    	calamity has overtaken her.
     
    250.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND MARTIN:
    	In a halting voice, Martin explains that he 
    	brought Dave there merely to see the place-- 
    	that he was taking him to see all the sights 
    	of the town.  John's head is bowed with grief.
     
    251.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND MARTIN:
    	Martin helps John to his feet as the police 
    	lieutenant, realizing that both of these young 
    	men are friends of the dead Dave, crosses 
    	behind them and takes his place beside Martin.  
    	The lieutenant is facing now toward the alcove 
    	through which Helene enters in the next scene.
     
    252.	ALCOVE OF GAMBLING DEN:
    	Accompanied by the patrolman, Helene enters as 
    	if in a dream and goes to top of steps which 
    	lead down to main floor of gambling den.
     
    253.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE:
    	With staring eyes, the terrorized Helene gazes 
    	down at the floor of the main room of the 
    	gambling den and sees--
     
    254.	CLOSE SHOT ON DAVE'S BODY: 
    	A flash of Dave's body lying on the floor.
     
    255.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE:
    	The awfulness of the tragedy is beginning to 
    	dawn on Helene's mind.
     
    256.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN, MARTIN, AND POLICE LIEUTENANT:
    	John, harassed by  his grief and scarcely 
    	knowing what he says, looks at the police 
    	lieutenant and demands to know--
     
    SUBTITLE 60:--"Why don't you hang the swine that run 
    		these places  Why do you let THEM live?"
     
    	(Scene 256 continued.)  As he speaks this 
    	title, John's attitude is almost a threatening 
    	one.  He cannot but feel that the police are 
    	partly responsible for Dave's death in 
    	permitting a place of this kind to remain in 
    	operation. To him it seems that none but swine 
    	would ever stoop to such a nefarious business 
    	as this.
     
    257.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE:
    	A flash of her as she realizes that it is John 
    	who speaks, and that he is unknowingly 
    	referring to her as one of the swine who 
    	operate gambling dens.
     
    258.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN, MARTIN, AND POLICE LIEUTENANT:
    	The police lieutenant does not attempt to 
    	answer John's questions for to him they are 
    	merely the ignorant questions of a grief-
    	stricken  boy; but turns toward Martin as much 
    	as to say that the latter, being a man of the 
    	world, had better answer his friend's inquiries.
     
    259.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE:
    	A flash of her as she stands there, unable to 
    	take her eyes off the scene before her.
     
    260.	CLOSE-UP ON POLICE LIEUTENANT: 
    	The police lieutenant, seeing Helene standing in 
    	the alcove and knowing that she is one of the 
    	proprietors of the place, turns to John and 
    	says sarcastically:
     
    SUBTITLE 61:--"There is the woman who owns this one--
    		ask her!"
     
    261.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN, MARTIN, AND POLICE LIEUTENANT:
    	As the lieutenant speaks this title, John 
    	quickly turns and sees--
     
    262.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE:
    	A flash of Helene, as with a startled look, she 
    	sees John turn and look at her.
     
    263.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN, MARTIN, AND POLICE LIEUTENANT:
    	John, looking off scene, sees his mother, turns  
    	again to police lieutenant, and says in a voice 
    	vibrant with emotion:
     
    SUBTITLE 62:--"Why you're crazy--that's my mother!"
     
    	(Scene 263 continued.)  John cannot understand 
    	why the police lieutenant has mistaken his 
    	mother for the proprietor of the gambling den.
     
    264.	MAIN ROOM--GAMBLING DEN:
    	Shooting so as to include group and also 
    	Helene and patrolman standing in alcove. John 
    	leaves Martin and police lieutenant, runs 
    	toward his mother and starts up the steps.
     
    265.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND HELENE:
    	John runs up the steps, takes one of Helene's 
    	hands in both of his own, and says to her 
    	pleadingly:
    
    SUBTITLE 63:--"Why did you follow me, mother? You 
    		must go home--something terrible has 
    		happened ...."
     
     	(Scene 265 continued.)  To John no other 
    	explanation to account for his mother's 
    	presence suggests itself. He pats her 
    	reassuringly and kisses her on the forehead, 
    	begging her to go home and wait for him there. 
    	Helene sadly turns away.  She cannot for the 
    	life of her bring herself to tell John the 
    	truth just now.
     
    266.	MAIN ROOM--GAMBLING DEN:
    	Leaving his mother in the alcove, John runs 
    	back to where Martin and the police lieutenant 
    	are still standing.
     
    267.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN, MARTIN, AND POLICE LIEUTENANT:
    	So far John has utterly failed to grasp the 
    	significance of the police lieutenant's remark. 
    	Still believing that the lieutenant does not
    	know what he is talking about, John says 
    	disgustedly:
     
    SUBTITLE 64:--"You don't know what you're talking 
    		about--she came here for me!"
     
     	(Scene 267 continued.)  As he says this, John 
    	looks at the lieutenant with a feeling of pity 
    	for the latter's ignorance.  The lieutenant, 
    	not being disposed to argue the matter of 
    	whether Helene came for John or not, says 
    	positively:
     
    SUBTITLE 65:--"That may be so, but she owns this 
    		place!" 
    
    	(Scene 267 continued.)  As the lieutenant 
    	speaks the foregoing title, John raises his arm 
    	to strike him for offering such a gross insult 
    	to Helene; but Martin quickly throws his arms 
    	around John and keeps him from making matters 
    	worse than they are.
     
    268.	MEDIUM SHOT ON HELENE AND PATROLMAN: 
    	A flash of Helene and the patrolman as she 
    	becomes startled to see John raise his arm to 
    	strike the lieutenant.
     
    269.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND MARTIN:
    	Martin still holds John, who turns to him and 
    	asks him if what the lieutenant says is true.  
    	Martin turns his head aside, not daring yet to 
    	tell John the truth.
     
    270.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN, MARTIN, AND POLICE LIEUTENANT:
    	John looks searchingly at both Martin and the 
    	police lieutenant.  He cannot bring himself to 
    	believe that what the lieutenant says is true.   
    	The idea is too preposterous--the thing is 
    	unthinkable.
     
    271.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND MARTIN:
    	To John comes the suspicion that perhaps after 
    	all it may be true.  He puts his clenched fists 
    	before his eyes--it is too horrible to even 
    	think of.
     
    272.	MAIN ROOM--GAMBLING DEN:
    	John turns, sees his mother still standing in
     	the alcove, and runs to her.  She, he believes,
    	will deny the truth of the lieutenant's 
    	statement.
     
    273.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND HELENE:
    	John goes to her, begging her to deny what has 
    	been said.  He is a pitiful object as he pleads 
    	with her and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 66:--"Mother, you don't own this place, do 
    		you?  Tell him he lies!"
     
    	(Scene  273  continued.)  As he says this 
    	Helene, almost in tears, hangs her head with 
    	the shame of it.  She is utterly speechless--
    	she cannot deny.  To John comes the 
    	realization that it is true.  Helene's very 
    	actions proclaim her guilt.  Tortured with the 
    	mental anguish this discovery has brought him, 
    	John staggers backward.
    
    274.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John, staggering backward, leans  against one 
    	of the pillars in the alcove.  With head bowed 
    	down with sorrow, he stands there, too stunned 
    	for the moment to move.  Then he looks up and 
    	sees--
     
    275.	CLOSE SHOT ON DAVE'S BODY:
    	A flash of Dave's body lying on the floor.
     
    276.	CLOSE-UP OF JOHN AND HELENE:
    	Helene has moved close to John, who stands 
    	there gazing dully at the floor.  Finally he
    	turns and looks at her and says piteously:
     
    SUBTITLE 67:--"Mother, you don't know what you've 
    		done."
     
    	(Scene 276 continued.)  Helene turns to him in 
    	mute appeal; and then, in a voice throbbing 
    	with emotion, he says:
     
    SUBTITLE 68:--"I love you--worship you--and you-- 
    		YOU ...."
     
    	(Scene 276 continued.)  John cannot find words 
    	to express for him what he would say.  The 
    	whole castle of his dreams has come tumbling 
    	down about his ears.  The night's tragedy has 
    	utterly destroyed his tranquillity of soul.  
    	He must get away--must go anywhere and forget 
    	the happenings of this dreadful night.  Torn 
    	with grief, he rushes wildly from the scene. 
    
    277.	MAIN ROOM--GAMBLING DEN:
    	John rushes down the steps near the alcove
    	and exits from the scene.  With a cry of
    	despair, Helene holds out her arms to him 
    	appealingly and then staggers down the steps 
    	calling to him.  (FADE OUT QUICKLY)
    
    278.	JOHN'S SUITE OF ROOMS--HELENE'S APARTMENT: 
    	(FADE IN)
    	With head bowed with grief, John enters slowly 
    	to center of room and stands there dazed by the 
    	shock of the terrible events through which he 
    	has passed.
     
    279.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	Determined to get away from it all, John turns 
    	and starts toward his bedroom to pack up his 
    	belongings.
     
    280.	MEDIUM SHOT ON HELENE AND BUTLER:
     	Helene hurriedly enters her apartment, looking 
    	for John.  Moving quickly to foreground, she 
    	asks the butler where John is.  Her face is 
    	haggard and drawn.
     
    281.	JOHN'S SUITE OF ROOMS--HELENE'S  APARTMENT:
    	Shooting from living room of suite toward door 
    	of bedroom, showing clothes closet in 
    	background.  John goes to clothes closet and
     	takes out his clothes, which he tosses in a 
    	heap on a table at one side.
     
    282.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN:
    	John's grip is on the table close to where he 
    	has tossed his clothes.  He picks up clothes; 
    	and, without stopping to fold them, starts to
    	hurriedly pack them in his grip.  Then he 
    	tosses them to one side again and stands 
    	looking at them with loathing and disgust.
     
    283.	CLOSE-UP ON CLOTHES:
    	The clothes are lying heaped up on the table. 
    	There DISSOLVES INTO them quickly a spinning 
    	roulette wheel and a roulette layout.
     
    284.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	In imagination, as he looks down at the 
    	clothes, John sees this spinning wheel and 
    	realizes that even the clothes he wears have 
    	been purchased with money won from 
    	unfortunates.
     
    285.	CLOSE-UP ON OUT DOOR OF JOHN'S SUITE: 
    	A flash of Helene as she enters door, her eyes 
    	opened wide with terror.
     
    286.	JOHN'S SUITE OF ROOMS--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
     	Helene stands near door while John comes from 
    	his bedroom to meet her.  He can ill conceal 
    	the bitterness he feels as he stands there and 
    	looks at her.  Helene pitifully extends her 
    	arms to him, begging him to listen to what she 
    	has to say.
     
    287.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John looks at Helene with a feeling of almost
    	loathing to think that she is the cause of all 
    	the misery that has come to him.
     
    288. 	JOHN'S SUITE OF ROOMS--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
     	Helene comes to him and begs him to listen to 
    	her, but he turns his head away in bitterness.  
    	Then she puts her arms around him and implores 
    	him to hear her. Helene says:
     
    SUBTITLE 69:--"You must listen to me--you MUST!"
     
    289.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND HELENE: 
    	Helene still clings to John and implores him to 
    	listen to her.  To John, nothing matters now 
    	save that a tragedy has taken place and that 
    	his once-adored mother is the cause of it. No 
    	explanation of hers can change these
    	outstanding facts.  He turns from her, almost
    	with loathing.
     
    290.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND HELENE: 
    	John leaves his mother's side and walks to
     	foreground.   Helene follows, still pleading
     	with him. She says:
     
    SUBTITLE 70:--"I didn't know how your father made his 
    		money until he died--then I went on with 
    		it for you!"
     
     	(Scene 290 continued.)  Helene, almost at the 
    	breaking point, says this pathetically; but 
    	John pays scant heed to what she says. The very 
    	pleasures of his life have been bought at the 
    	price of blood and woe.  He moves out of scene, 
    	leaving Helene staring at him helplessly.
     
    291.	CLOSE-UP ON CHAIR:
    	A flash of John as he sinks heavily into chair 
    	and bows his head over his hands.
     
    292.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE:
    	A flash of Helene as she stretches her hands 
    	appealingly to him.
     
    293.	CLOSE-UP ON CHAIR:
    	John sits sideways in the chair staring down at 
    	the floor.  Helene comes to him and kneels down 
    	at his feet. Piteously she says:
    
    SUBTITLE 71:--"I was going to sell out--it was all 
    		for you."
     
    	(Scene 293 continued.)  As she says this, 
    	John's face clouds with disgust at the very 
    	thought that she had so far misjudged his 
    	character, as to think that he wished for 
    	anything in life that could not come to him 
    	save at the price of such misery to others. He 
    	gets up out of chair.
     
    294.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND HELENE: 
    	A flash of him as he stands above the still 
    	kneeling Helene, his face twitching with 
    	emotion.
     
    295.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	As he stands above her, he says bitterly:
     
    SUBTITLE 72:--"For ME.  For the food I eat--the 
    		clothes I wear--God, what a price!"
     
    296.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND HELENE: 
    	As he says this, Helene covers her face with 
    	her hands.  His remark cuts her like the lash 
    	of a whip.
     
    297.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	A flash of John as his face twitches with 
    	emotion.
     
    298.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE:
    	Helene reaches up to him, grasps his hand, and 
    	lays her other hand on his arm pathetically.  
    	Then she says:
     
    SUBTITLE 73:--"I wanted you to have money--everything
    		--can't you see?"
     
    299.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND HELENE: 
    	Helene begs him to try to see things as she sees 
    	them.  It has all been done for him, and him 
    	alone.
     
    300.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	To John it is wholly impossible to see things 
    	in the same light as his mother sees them. He 
    	says:
     
    SUBTITLE 74--"No, all I can see is Dave and Mary--and 
    	the other Daves and Marys ..."
     
    	(Scene 300 continued.)  As he says this, he 
    	closes his eyes as if to shut out the tragedy 
    	that has overtaken him.
     
    301.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE:
    	A flash of Helene as she holds up her hand to 
    	him imploringly.
     
    302.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John looks at Helene with loathing and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 75:--"... murder ... suicide ... and broken 
    		lives!"
    
    303.	JOHN'S SUITE OF ROOMS--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
    	Helene is still kneeling near the chair, 
    	staring down at the floor and almost in tears. 
    	For a moment John stands there looking at her, 
    	then rushes from the scene.  As he goes, Helene 
    	cries out to him in despair, begging him to 
    	stay.  At the doorway, John pauses and looks 
    	back toward Helene.
     
    304.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	As he stands near the door, John says from the 
    	very bottom of his heart:
     
    SUBTITLE 76:--"I wish I had never been born!"
     
    	(Scene 304 continued.)  As he says this he puts 
    	his clenched fists to his forehead, exits 
    	hurriedly through the doorway, and closes the 
    	door behind him.
     
    305.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE: 
    	Helene calls out to him wildly, still begging 
    	him to stay. Then, as she realizes that he is 
    	gone out of her life, perhaps forever, her eyes
    	fill with scalding tears and she becomes
    	engulfed in the flood of her emotion.
     
    306.	JOHN'S SUITE OF ROOMS--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
    	Pressing her hands to her brow, Helene bows
    	down, her body shaken by her sobs.  (FADE OUT)
     
    SUBTITLE 77. (FADE IN ON):
    
    		In spite of sorrow, life goes on and the 
    		day's work is done.
     
    307.	ANGLE OF HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	Mrs. Heath sits in the corner of the room 
    	between two windows, darning Bob's socks. Her 
    	eyes are full of sadness, and the lines in her 
    	face have noticeably deepened.  Several weeks 
    	have elapsed since Dave's death and burial, but 
    	she is still haunted by the great grief caused 
    	her in the loss of her beloved son. Every 
    	waking minute she thinks of her boy who can 
    	return to her no more.
     
    308.	EXTERIOR HEATH FARM:
    	In this scene a partly plowed field shows in 
    	the foreground,  the creek in background. 
    	Underneath the wide-spreading branches of the 
    	trees which line the creek, the cows are 
    	grazing peacefully, unconcerned with the 
    	affairs of mortals.  Two horses enter attached 
    	to a plow which the struggling Bob is vainly 
    	trying to guide.  To Bob, unaccustomed as he 
    	is to any form of manual labor, the task of 
    	plowing is a very arduous one.   Dave's death 
    	has forced him to do all the work that must be 
    	done on the farm, if the family is to live; and 
    	Bob's dreams of a college education have been 
    	rudely shattered.  He utterly detests the very 
    	thought of having to do this work, but now 
    	there is no help for it.
     
    309.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BOB: 
    	Bob is struggling with the handles of the plow, 
    	intense disgust written large upon his face. 
    	Brutally he jerks the reins of the horses as he 
    	calls out to them.  None of his troubles in 
    	trying to plow a field does he blame upon 
    	himself; but considers that the horses are 
    	wholly at fault and vents his spite on them, 
    	knowing that they can offer no protest in 
    	return for any brutal treatment he may accord 
    	them.
     
    310.	EXTERIOR HEATH FARM: 
    	Bob still struggles angrily with the plow. It 
    	seems invested with almost human perversity as 
    	it jumps out of the furrow.
     
    SUBTITLE 78:--After weeks of wandering--drawn back to 
    		Darienne by anxiety for the family and 
    		his love for Mary.
    
    311. 	INTERIOR CABIN:
     	This cabin is a small one used by the college 
    	boys as a hunting lodge and is situated close 
    	to the Heath farm on a hillside over-looking 
    	it.  The place is crudely furnished; but it is 
    	equipped with sufficient furniture and cooking 
    	utensils so that one can be comfortable, if he 
    	is prepared to rough it.  To one side is a 
    	large, stone fireplace with a wide mantel above 
    	it.  John, accompanied by one of the 
    	neighboring farmers, who has driven him over to 
    	the lodge from the railroad station, is 
    	discovered on scene.  The farmer is carrying 
    	John's grip, his sole article of baggage. John, 
    	now dressed in a flannel shirt and a suit of 
    	clothes such as a young man with little money 
    	might wear, is looking around and inspecting 
    	the cabin.   Finally, as John seems well 
    	pleased with the place, the farmer places the 
    	grip on a chair beside a small wooden table.
     
    312.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND FARMER--CABIN: 
    	They are standing at the end of the small 
    	table.  John asks the farmer if he thinks it 
    	would be all right for him to occupy the cabin
    	for a while.  The farmer is a very genial old
    	fellow and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 79:--"Sure you can have it; them college 
    		boys only use it for a hunting lodge."
     
    	(Scene 312 continued.)  The farmer, having 
    	assured John that it will be all right for him 
    	to take possession of the cabin and make 
    	himself at home, exits.  John watches him go 
    	and then stands there wondering if the Heaths, 
    	ignorant of the place where Dave met his death, 
    	will welcome him to their home as before or 
    	whether they have learned that Dave was killed 
    	in Helene's gambling den and will close their 
    	doors against him forever.
     
    313.	MEDIUM SHOT ON MARY AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	Mary and her mother are standing at the gate in  
    	the picket fence which surrounds the Heath 
    	farmhouse. As Mary looks across the fields, 
    	wondering what has become of John Trevor, her 
    	face becomes very sad.
     
    314.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
     	John turns his head and, seeing a little 
    	window of the cabin overlooking the Heath farm, 
    	starts toward it.
     
    315.	CLOSE-UP ON WINDOW OF CABIN:
    	John advances to window and peers through it 
    	longingly.
     
    SUBTITLE 80:--Desperately afraid they have found out
    		--and shut their door against him.
     
    	(Scene 315 continued.)  For a moment John 
    	lingers at the window, then sadly turns away.
    
    316.	MEDIUM SHOT ON MARY AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	Mrs. Heath affectionately places her hands on 
    	Mary's shoulders and sympathizes with her.
     
    317.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY--SOFT FOCUS: 
    	A very pretty shot of her here as she says 
    	wistfully:
     
    SUBTITLE 81:--"I can't understand why John doesn't 
    		come back or write--after all he did for 
    		us when Dave--died."
     
    	(Scene 317 continued.)  As she says this, her 
    	lips quiver ever so little.  She feels hurt to 
    	think that after his long period of devotion he 
    	may desert them all now, in their hour of
    	greatest need.  To her it is strange indeed
    	that one could show such solicitude when her 
    	brother died and then disappear from sight 
    	altogether; but deep down in her heart, she 
    	knows that someday he will come back to her.
     
    318.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	Mrs. Heath assures Mary that everything will 
    	turn out for the best and starts out of scene, 
    	going up the walk that leads to the farmhouse.
     
    319.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN--CABIN:
    	John has already placed his grip on the table 
    	and is now unpacking some of his belongings. 
    	Laying some of his things to one side, he 
    	takes from his grip a framed photograph of his 
    	mother.
     
    320.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE'S PHOTOGRAPH: 
    	A flash of the photograph as John holds it in 
    	his hands.
     
    321.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	As John gazes intently at the photograph, a 
    	look of loathing comes over his face.  The 
    	photograph but recalls memories of the tragic 
    	past.  He starts to hurl the photograph to the 
    	floor, determined to put the past out of his 
    	life forever.  Then he changes his mind and 
    	decides to keep the picture--the one memento of 
    	a mother who loved him so devotedly.  He 
    	thinks of his mother as she was in the old days 
    	before calamity descended upon them both, and 
    	his face softens with the thought.
     
    322.	EXTERIOR OF HEATH FARM:
     	Shooting from across the road which runs in 
    	front of the Heath farmhouse and showing 
    	farmhouse, picket fence and gate.  Mary is 
    	still standing at the gate, gazing sorrowfully 
    	across the fields; when the farmer, who took 
    	John to the cabin, drives into the scene in his 
    	buckboard, stops his team, and calls out to 
    	Mary.
     
    323.	CLOSE-UP ON THE FARMER:
    	A flash of the farmer, seated in his wagon, as 
    	he calls out to Mary.
     
    324.	PICKET FENCE AND GATE:
     	Mary hears the farmer call to her and starts 
    	from gate toward farmer's buckboard.
     
    325.	EXTERIOR HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Full scene, continuing main action.  Mary 
    	advances to a position close to the farmer's 
    	wagon.
     
    326.	CLOSE-UP ON FARMER:
    	The farmer looks at Mary and smiles at the 
    	importance of the news he is about to tell her.  
    	He says:
     
    SUBTITLE 82:--"Guess who I just took up to the lodge!"
     
    	(Scene 326 continued.)  As the farmer says 
    	this, he leans forward eagerly waiting for Mary 
    	to guess.
     
    327.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY: 
    	Mary is intensely interested but cannot guess 
    	who it is.
     
    328.	CLOSE-UP ON FARMER: 
    	A flash of the farmer as he says, with an air 
    	of great importance:
     
    SUBTITLE 83:--"John Trevor!"
     
    329. 	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
     	Mary can scarcely believe him--it seems too 
    	good to be true.
     
    330.	CLOSE-UP ON FARMER: 
    	The farmer laughs and points toward the hunting 
    	lodge, quite pleased that he has been the one 
    	to bring such good news to Mary.
     
    331.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	Mary is too happy to speak. Her heart is 
    	bubbling over with joy to think that at last 
    	John has come back to her.  She turns and 
    	starts to move toward Heath farmhouse.
     
    332.	PICKET FENCE AND GATE: 
    	Mary comes into scene on a run, opens gate, 
    	and hurries up the gravel walk which leads to 
    	farmhouse.
     
    333.	HEATH KITCHEN: 
     	The stove is in the foreground; a cupboard in
    	background.  To the left, close to the kitchen
    	sink, stands Mrs. Heath, peeling potatoes.
     
    334.	CLOSE-UP ON MRS. HEATH:
    	Mrs. Heath hears Mary running toward kitchen, 
    	turns and looks toward doorway as Mary enters.
     
    335.	HEATH KITCHEN: 
    	Mary has entered and now moves forward to tell 
    	her mother the good news.  Mrs. Heath laying 
    	down the potato she is peeling, advances to 
    	center of kitchen to meet Mary.
     
    336.	CLOSE UP ON MARY: 
    	Her face radiant with joy in the thought that 
    	at last John has come back to her.
     
    337.	CLOSE SHOT ON MARY AND MRS. HEATH--HEATH KITCHEN:
     	Mary, pointing off scene toward the cabin, tells 
    	her mother that John is back.  Mrs. Heath, happy 
    	for the moment in the thought of Mary's 
    	happiness, kisses her fondly.
     
    338.	COUNTRY ROAD:
    	Shooting down the road toward the Heath 
    	farmhouse which appears in the distance. The 
    	farmer, in his buckboard, comes driving along
    	the road, having just left Mary.  In his
    	roadster, Martin enters from the opposite 
    	direction.  The auto and wagon almost collide. 
    	The farmer draws up his team and Martin quickly 
    	stops his roadster.
     
    339.	CLOSE-UP ON FARMER:
    	The farmer is very angry at Martin's reckless
    	driving and wants to know why Martin does not 
    	stay on his own side of the road.
     
    340.	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN:
     	Martin is equally angry and tells the farmer to 
    	drive where he belongs and not try to hog the 
    	road.
     
    341.	CLOSE-UP ON FARMER:
    	The farmer, having had his say, starts to drive 
    	away but suddenly realizes that he can spoil 
    	Martin's day for him by telling him of John's 
    	return.  He has never liked the rich Martin,
    	anyhow.  The farmer says:
     
    SUBTITLE 84:--"You won't be seein' so much of Mary, 
    		now John Trevor's back!"
     
    	(Scene 341 continued)   As he says this he
    	watches Martin intently to see the effect of 
    	the remark will be, for he is well aware of 
    	Martin's jealousy of John.
     
    342.	CLOSE-UP MARTIN: 
     	Martin hears the farmer's remark and shows 
    	that the news is not pleasing to him.  During
    	John's absence, he has had a clear field with
     	Mary.  Now he will again meet with opposition 
    	in his suit for Mary's hand.
     
    343.	CLOSE-UP FARMER:
    	The farmer, grinning maliciously at the thought 
    	that he has hurt Martin, starts to drive out of 
    	scene. 
     
    344.	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN:
    	Disgusted, Martin slumps down in the seat of 
    	his roadster.  Then, on his face comes a look 
    	of grim determination, as he decides on his 
    	line of action.  He will break up John's 
    	romance immediately by going to the Heaths and 
    	telling them where Dave was killed.
     
    345.	MARY'S ROOM: 
    	Shooting through the open door of Mary's room 
    	toward living-room where Mrs. Heath and Mary 
    	are now standing.  Mary enters room, closes 
    	door, and stands with her back to it.
     
    346.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY: 
    	Mary stands with back against door.  Her face 
    	is radiant with joy.  This is the happiest day 
    	of her life. At last John has come back.
     
    347.	SIDEYARD--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Martin enters slowly in roadster and stops his 
    	car in the yard.
    
    348.	WATERING TROUGH:
    	This is the watering trough in the Heath 
    	backyard.  Bob enters with the two plow horses 
    	to give them a drink before putting them in 
    	their stalls for the noon hour.  He gradually 
    	gets the horses maneuvered around in front of 
    	the trough but has a difficult time managing 
    	them, and is in a very disagreeable mood. The 
    	horses could be easily managed by anyone 
    	experienced in that line; but they seem to 
    	sense Bob's inexperience, although they are in 
    	no sense fractious.
    
    349.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB'S FOOT: 
    	A flash of Bob's foot as he steps forward and 
    	one of the horses plants its hoof on it.
     
    350.	CLOSE SHOT ON BOB AND HORSE:
    	A flash of Bob as he starts to unfasten the 
    	horse's bridle and then looks down and sees the 
    	horse's hoof on his foot.
     
    351.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB'S FOOT:
    	A flash of Bob's foot as the horse stands on it.
     
    352.	CLOSE SHOT ON BOB AND HORSE:
    	Bob's disgruntled mood, at the thought that he 
    	is forced to work on the farm, changes to one 
    	of anger.  He cruelly strikes the horse on the 
    	muzzle, causing it to pull back quickly and 
    	remove the hoof from off his foot. Then he 
    	reaches down, grasps his injured foot, and 
    	starts to strike the horse again.
     
    353.	CLOSE SHOT ON MARTIN: 
    	Martin, standing beside the roadster, has been 
    	quietly observing all that has taken place at 
    	the watering trough.  He notes that Bob is very 
    	angry with the horse and is in a disagreeable 
    	mood toward things in general, and considers 
    	this the propitious moment to tell him just 
    	what he knows of John Trevor and the gambling 
    	den where Dave was killed. Bob will make a 
    	useful ally in forever blasting John's romance 
    	with Mary.  With this idea in mind, Martin 
    	starts toward watering trough.
    
    354.	CLOSE-UP ON MRS. HEATH: 
    	Mrs. Heath, standing near cupboard, turns and 
    	sees Mary as she enters room.
     
    355.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	Mary has just entered room.  She has a package 
    	under her arm.  For a moment, Mary stands near 
    	door and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 85:--"These are the things John left.  I 
    		think I had better take them to him."
     
    	(Scene 355 continued.)  Mary waits there 
    	momentarily for her mother's approval.  So 
    	anxious is she to see John again that she 
    	cannot wait for him to come to the farmhouse 
    	to see her--she must needs go to him.
     
    356.	CLOSE-UP ON MRS. HEATH: 
    	Mrs. Heath smiles good-naturedly at Mary, and 
    	says that it will be all right for her to take 
    	the things to John.
     
    357.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY: 
    	Mary smiles back at her mother, and says that 
    	she will not be gone very long.
     
    358.	MEDIUM SHOT ON WATERING TROUGH: 
    	Bob, thoroughly disgusted with his lot in life 
    	and still angry because the horse accidentally
    	stepped on his foot, is seated on the end of 
    	the trough. Martin is now standing near him, 
    	looking at him with eyes in which malice 
    	gleams.  Noting Bob's mood, Martin says, as 
    	if he were trying to sympathize with him:
     
    SUBTITLE 86:--"It's a shame you couldn't finish 
    		school, Bob."
     
    	(Scene 358 continued.)  Martin realizes that 
    	school is the thing nearest to Bob's heart and 
    	has chosen to attack him at his weakest point. 
    	Bob looks up at him helplessly; and Martin 
    	continues to speak, now in an insinuating 
    	tone:
     
    SUBTITLE 87:--"Did you ever wonder where John Trevor 
    		got his money?"
     
     	(Scene 358 continued.)  As this title appears 
    	there DISSOLVES INTO it a spinning roulette 
    	wheel and a roulette layout.
     
    359.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB AND MARTIN:
    	Bob is listening attentively but makes no 
    	attempt to answer Martin's question.  It had 
    	never occurred to him to question the source 
    	of John's money.  Martin continues, maliciously:
     
    SUBTITLE 88:--"From his mother's gambling house--she 
    		owned the biggest one in the city!"
     
    	(Scene 359 continued.)  As this title appears, 
    	there DISSOLVES INTO it a spinning roulette 
    	wheel and a roulette layout as in the previous 
    	scene.  Bob looks mildly surprised but is not 
    	the type of character who worries about where 
    	money comes from, so long as it comes. 
    	Moreover, he is inclined to doubt Martin's 
    	statement.  Martin, now watching Bob intently, 
    	says:
     
    SUBTITLE 89:--"It's the truth! She owned the one 
    		where--Dave was killed!"
     
    	(Scene 359 continued.)  The effect of this
    	statement is electrical.  Bob excitedly leaps
    	to his feet.  Martin, adding fuel to the
    	flames, says:
     
    SUBTITLE 90:--"That's why he paid all the funeral 
    		bills and helped you--because he was to 
    		blame!" 
    
    	(Scene 359 continued.)  Bob is almost trembling 
    	with rage as he hears this.   Martin, having 
    	now so successfully stirred up Bob's wrath 
    	against John, continues:
     
    SUBTITLE 91:--"But you have to work while he takes it 
    		easy--and makes love to Mary!"
     
    	(Scene 359 continued.)  Bob, becoming more and 
    	more wrought up with the injustice of things, 
    	turns trembling toward Martin.  The latter, to 
    	spur Bob on to immediate action against John, 
    	says:
     
    SUBTITLE 92:--"He's up at the lodge now."
     
    360.	MEDIUM SHOT ON WATERING TROUGH: 
    	Bob is now beside himself with rage. 
    	Determined to break up forever Mary's romance 
    	with John, he clenches his fists, and hurls
    	himself out of the scene.  Martin, thoroughly 
    	satisfied with what he has so far 
    	accomplished, and with an amused expression on 
    	his face to think that his plan has worked out 
    	so well, watches Bob go.
     
    361.	HEATH KITCHEN: 
    	Mrs. Heath is now working near the kitchen sink 
    	when she hears Bob hurriedly enter the kitchen 
    	door.  She turns and advances to meet him, 
    	unable at the time to fathom the cause of Bob's 
    	agitation.  Bob excitedly rushes to center of 
    	kitchen and asks wildly:
     
    SUBTITLE 93:--"Where's Mary?" 
    
    	(Scene 361 continued.)  Mrs. Heath, although 
    	she realizes that Bob is greatly wrought up 
    	over something, does not stop to question him.  
    	She tells him that Mary has gone to the hunting 
    	lodge to take some things to John. This is 
    	enough for Bob, who rushes to the kitchen door 
    	and exits.
     
    362.	EXTERIOR HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Shooting from the road which passes in front
    	of the Heath farm.  Mary is at the side of
    	the road, gathering some flowers to take to 
    	John.  She starts to move to road just as she 
    	hears Bob call, then she turns and Bob comes 
    	running up to her.
     
    363.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY: 
    	Just a flash of Mary as, uncomprehending, she 
    	looks at Bob.
     
    364.	EXTERIOR HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Continuing the main action, Bob grabs the 
    	package which Mary is carrying under her arm 
    	and hurls it from him. Then he seizes the wrist 
    	of the still uncomprehending Mary, hurries her 
    	through the gateway and up the gravel walk to 
    	the house.
    
    365.	ANGLE OF HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	Shooting toward window.  Bob enters, still 
    	dragging the surprised Mary after him. Then he 
    	drops her arm and stands with his back to the 
    	door, his face working with anger.  Mrs. Heath, 
    	sensing that something is wrong, rushes into 
    	the scene from the kitchen and stands near the 
    	trembling Bob.
     
    366.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	A flash of Mary as she stands there bewildered 
    	at Bob's unexplained conduct.
     
    367.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	Mrs. Heath turns toward Bob, a questioning look 
    	in her eyes.  She is entirely at a loss to 
    	explain the cause of his anger.  Bob, pointing 
    	a shaking finger at Mary off scene, and 
    	trembling with rage, says:
     
    SUBTITLE 94:--"You're never going to see John Trevor 
    		again!" 
    
    	(Scene 367 continued.)  As he says this, Bob 
    	can scarcely contain his anger.
     
    368.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	A flash of Mary as she gazes at Bob with wide-
    	open eyes.
      
    369.	CLOSE SHOT ON BOB AND MRS. HEATH:
    	Mrs. Heath is surprised at Bob's strange
    	conduct.  Bob continues to speak:
     
    SUBTITLE 95:--"John hilled Dave--he and his mother!
    		She owned that gambling house!"
     
    	(Scene 369 continued.)  Mrs. Heath, unbelieving, 
    	looks at Bob in amazement that he could make 
    	such a statement concerning John Trevor.
     
    370.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	A flash of Mary as she gasps and puts her
    	hands to her mouth. 
     
    371. 	CLOSE-UP ON MRS. HEATH:
    	Mrs. Heath gazes first at Mary and then back at 
    	Bob.  The thing is unbelievable.
     
    372.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB:
    	A flash of Bob as he looks off scene and sees 
    	Martin who has just entered the door leading in 
    	from the side porch.
     
    373.	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN:
    	A flash of Martin as he stands near the side 
    	door.  His face is serious, but he is well 
    	satisfied with the way matters have developed. 
    
    374. 	CLOSE-UP ON BOB:
    	Bob points toward Martin and says: 
    
    SUBTITLE 96:--"Ask Martin--he'll tell you!" 
    
    	(Scene 374 continued.)  Bob stands there 
    	waiting for Martin to speak.
     
    375.	CLOSE-UP ON MRS. HEATH:
    	Mrs. Heath slowly turns her head and gravely 
    	looks at Martin.
     
    376.	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN:
    	Martin looks at Mrs. Heath and says that it is 
    	true.
     
    377.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	A flash of Mary as she quickly glances at 
    	Martin and then, almost in tears, starts toward 
    	Mrs. Heath.
     
    378.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY AND MRS. HEATH:
    	Mary grasps Mrs. Heath's dress and, having 
    	glanced back at Martin, piteously pleads with 
    	her mother not to believe him.  Then she rushes 
    	from her mother toward Martin.
     
    379.	CLOSE SHOT ON MARTIN:
     	Mary runs into scene and stands near Martin, 
    	begging him to say that it is not true.
     
    380.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	Mary is almost in tears as she says to Martin:
     
    SUBTITLE 97:--"I don't believe it!"
     
     	(Scene 380 continued.)  To her the thing is 
    	unbelievable.
     
    381.	ANGLE OF HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	As Mrs. Heath stands looking at Mary, Bob
    	suddenly rushes through the outer door,
    	determined to confront John and accuse him to 
    	his face.  Fearful lest, in Bob's rage, he may 
    	kill John or be killed by him, Mrs. Heath 
    	hurries to follow Bob as she sees him leave the 
    	house.  One tragedy has fallen upon the 
    	household--there must be no more.
     
    382.	EXTERIOR HEATH FARM:
    	Shooting from country road which passes in 
    	front of the farmhouse.  Bob comes running from 
    	house, rushes through the gate, and turns toward 
    	road.
     
    383.	CLOSE SHOT ON MARY AND MARTIN:
    	A flash of Mary as she sees her mother start to 
    	leave the house.  Mary runs from scene towards 
    	window.
     
    384.	ANGLE OF HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	A flash of Mary as she runs toward window and 
    	gazes out.
     
    385.	EXTERIOR HEATH FARM:
    	Continuing the main action, Mrs. Heath comes 
    	running from the gate to the road, holding her 
    	hands out appealingly to the hurrying Bob and 
    	calling wildly to him.
     
    386.	CLOSE UP ON MARY:
    	Mary is at the window, watching her mother go.   
    	Her face is twitching with her great emotion 
    	as she now turns and looks toward Martin.
     
    387.	CLOSE SHOT ON MARTIN:
    	Martin having accomplished his purpose without 
    	seeming to do so, turns and exits through the 
    	side door; his face serious as if he greatly 
    	regretted having had to tell the Heaths where 
    	Dave was killed.
     
    388.	SIDEYARD--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Martin's roadster is standing in the side yard. 
    	A turkey gobbler is sitting on the running
    	board as Martin enters.  Martin viciously
    	knocks the gobbler off the machine and starts 
    	to climb in to drive away.
     
    389.	MEDIUM SHOT ON CABIN FIREPLACE:
    	John places his mother's photograph on the 
    	mantel above the fireplace, and his eyes soften 
    	with tender memories of the happy days that 
    	were his.
     
    390.	MEDIUM SHOT ON CABIN DOOR:
    	The door opens, Bob quickly enters and stands 
    	with his back to the door, his face livid with 
    	rage.
     
    391.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John is still looking at his mother's 
    	photograph when he hears the door open. He 
    	turns and for a moment a smile of welcome to 
    	Bob flickers across his face.   As he is about 
    	to speak, he notes that Bob is boiling with 
    	anger.
     
    392.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB: 
    	Bob's face is distorted with rage as he stands 
    	momentarily at the door. Then he advances 
    	threateningly toward John.
     
    393.   CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN:
    	John still stands at the fireplace, awaiting 
    	Bob's approach.  Bob enters with clenched fist  
    	and, trembling with his anger, stands before 
    	the wondering John.  Then in a voice, vibrant 
    	with rage, Bob says:
     
    SUBTITLE 98:--"You killed Dave--you and your mother!"
     
    394.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB:
    	A flash of Bob, as with blazing eyes, he draws 
    	back his hand to strike John.
     
    395.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN: 
    	John is surprised at Bob's vehemence.  He 
    	opens his mouth to speak but cannot find words 
    	to say.
     
    396.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND BOB:
    	For the moment, John feels utterly helpless in 
    	the face of Bob's sudden onslaught.  While he 
    	tries to explain matters to the angry Bob, the 
    	latter says with a heart full of bitterness and 
    	resentment:
     
    SUBTITLE 99:--"You--always sending me on errands--you 
    		with lots of money--from a GAMBLING 
    		HOUSE!"
     
    397.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB:
    	A flash of Bob as he finishes speaking the 
    	foregoing title and looks angrily at John.
     
    398.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John endeavors to explain but cannot find words 
    	that are adequate. He turns nervously and looks 
    	at his mother's picture, realizing that she is 
    	the indirect cause of all of his misfortunes.
     
    399.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND BOB:
    	AS John turns to look at Bob, the latter 
    	exclaims:
     
    SUBTITLE 100--"Deny it! Why don't you deny it!"
     
    400.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND BOB:
    	As he speaks the foregoing title, Bob looks up 
    	at John threateningly.  John, unable to deny 
    	the truth of Bob's accusations, sadly turns his 
    	head to one side.
     
    401.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND BOB:
    	Bob is still threatening John when the latter, 
    	with staring eyes, looks and sees Mrs. Heath
    	standing in the doorway.  Bob, noting the look 
    	that has come into John's eyes, turns and sees 
    	her too.
     
    402.	MEDIUM SHOT ON CABIN DOOR:
    	Mrs. Heath, panting from her exertion in 
    	climbing the hill to the cabin, stands there 
    	and looks at John appealingly. As she slowly
    	places her hands upon her heaving bosom, her 
    	face clouds with sorrow.   Down deep in her 
    	heart, for the sake of Mary's future happiness, 
    	she still hopes that what Martin has said is 
    	not true.
     
    403.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	With wide-open eyes, John stares at Mrs. Heath.
    
    404.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND BOB:
     	Mrs. Heath, with eyes fixed intently upon John, 
    	moves from the door toward the fireplace of the 
    	cabin.
     
    405.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND BOB:
    	With measured tread, Mrs. Heath enters scene.  
    	Her face is worn with care and sorrow. Even now 
    	she fervently prays that John will be able to 
    	deny the truth of the story Martin has told.  
    	As she approaches John, Bob turns away.
     
    406.	CLOSE-UP ON MRS. HEATH:
    	With steadfast eyes which earnestly gaze up into 
    	John's face, Mrs. Heath asks solemnly:
     
    SUBTITLE 101:--"Is it true, John?" 
    
    	(Scene 406 continued.)  As she asks this fateful 
    	question, she waits for John to answer.
     
    407.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John cries to stammer out some reply.  He
    	cannot answer yet and turns his head to one 
    	side, a tortured look upon his face.
     
    408.	CLOSE-UP ON MRS. HEATH:
    	For a moment Mrs. Heath awaits his answer, then 
    	sorrowfully bows her head.
     
    409.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	In his agony John stammers:
     
    SUBTITLE 102:--"I'm sorry--I--" 
    
    	(Scene 409 continued).  He tries to find words 
    	to complete the sentence he has begun but cannot 
    	go on.  From the very bottom of his heart, he is 
    	sorry; but he realizes that sorrow cannot bring 
    	back Dave again.
     
    410.	CLOSE-UP ON MRS. HEATH:
    	Mrs. Heath looks up sternly at John and, with a 
    	voice choking with emotion, says:
     
    SUBTITLE 103:--"Will sorrow, give Dave back to us? 
    		Will it harvest the grain--will it feed 
    		the children?" 
    
    	(Scene 410 continued.)  John cannot answer 
    	these questions.  He knows that no sorrow on 
    	earth can do any of the things Mrs. Heath has 
    	mentioned.
     
    411.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND BOB:
    	As Bob hears Mrs. Heath's questions, he quickly 
    	turns on John and asks vehemently:
     
    SUBTITLE 104:--"Will it give me an education--will
               it Keep me from working like a dog"
    
    	(Scene 411 continued.)  These two things are 
    	uppermost in the mind of the selfish Bob. To
    	him it seems far more important that he should 
    	get an education, and not be compelled to work,  
    	than that the grain should be harvested and the 
    	children fed.
     
    412.	CLOSE SHOT ON GROUP--CABIN:
    	Mrs. Heath lays a reproving hand on Bob's arm.  
    	As John stands helpless before them, Bob gives 
    	him a vindictive look and leads his sorrowing 
    	mother out of the scene.  For a moment John 
    	watches them as they slowly approach the door 
    	of the cabin, then rushes out of the scene to 
    	intercept them at the door, to make a one last 
    	plea to Mrs. Heath.
     
    413.	MEDIUM SHOT ON CABIN DOOR:
    	John runs to door as Bob and Mrs. Heath 
    	approach.  Bob quickly draws back his hand to  
    	strike John; but Mrs. Heath, placing herself 
    	between the two boys, restrains the angry Bob, 
    	who hurriedly exits from the cabin to await his 
    	mother outside.  He has heard enough of John's 
    	attempts to palliate his guilt for Dave's death 
    	and wants to hear no more.
     
    414.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	As they stand at the cabin door, John says from 
    	the bottom of his heart:
     
    SUBTITLE 105--"I'd give anything in the world ..." 
    
    	(Scene 414 continued.)  Although she cannot but 
    	realize John's contriteness of spirit, yet he 
    	cannot give her the one thing she most longs 
    	for. With a choking voice, Mrs. Heath says:
     
    SUBTITLE 106:--"Give us--Dave!" 
    
    	(Scene 414 continued.)  Having said this, she 
    	exits through the doorway of the cabin. John 
    	sees her join Bob and go down the hill toward 
    	the farmhouse, his heart torn with anguish.
     
    415.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY: 
    	Mary is sitting on the bed in her room, sobbing.  
    	As the scalding tears roll down her cheeks, she 
    	bows her head with grief at the thought that 
    	perhaps she has lost forever the one boy she 
    	has most loved.
     
    416.	EXTERIOR HEATH FARM: 
    	Mrs. Heath and Bob slowly enter scene from the 
    	road which passes in front of the farmhouse and 
    	go toward the gate.
     
    417.	MEDIUM SHOT ON CABIN FIREPLACE:
    	John stands near fireplace, his brow knitted in 
    	thought.  As he stands there thinking, an idea 
    	suddenly comes to him.  He can and will help 
    	the Heaths in their hour of sorrow.
     
    418.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY AND MRS. HEATH:
    	Mrs. Heath, upon re-entering the farmhouse, has 
    	gone at once to Mary to tell her that John has 
    	tacitly admitted his guilt for the murder of 
    	Dave.  Hopeful to the last, Mary has for the 
    	moment succeeded in drying her tears. Together 
    	Mrs. Heath and Mary stand in the doorway 
    	leading to Mary's room.  Mrs. Heath notes the 
    	fact that Mary has been crying bitterly and 
    	says to her solemnly, in a tone of mild 
    	reproof:
     
    SUBTITLE 107:--"Mary, if you loved Dave, you won't 
    		waste tears on John Trevor." 
    
    	(Scene 418 continued.)  As her mother says this, 
    	Mary cannot keep back the tears that glisten in 
    	her eyes.  For her the days of romance have 
    	passed; and she has lost, perhaps forever, the 
    	love that she held closest to her heart.
    
    419.	MEDIUM SHOT ON CABIN FIREPLACE: 
    	As John stands there, a resolution is horn 
    	within him.  He looks down at his hands and 
    	sees that they are strong.  Although he cannot 
    	bring Dave back to life again; yet he can, 
    	with those strong young hands of his, harvest 
    	the grain and feed the children.  He looks at 
    	his mother's picture and tells her, just as if 
    	she were there in person to hear him, that with 
    	his hands and with them alone he can atone for 
    	the sin that was hers.  Determined to go at 
    	once to Mrs. Heath and offer what little he has 
    	to give, he hurriedly exits from the scene.
     
    420.	WATERING TROUGH:
    	Bob comes toward trough, leading two plow 
    	horses from the barn in the background.
     
    421.	SIDEYARD--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Shooting toward barn and watering trough but 
    	tipping in the side porch. John runs into scene 
    	and goes to side porch to find Mrs. Heath.
     
    422.	MEDIUM SHOT ON WATERING TROUGH: 
    	A flash of Bob as he turns, looks off scene, 
    	and sees John.
     
    423.	SIDEYARD--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Shooting toward porch and side door of house. 
    	John stands on the lower step to porch, as if 
    	about to enter the house, then calls out; and, 
    	as no one appears at the door, looks around, 
    	sees Bob near the watering trough, and starts 
    	toward him.
    
    424.	MEDIUM SHOT ON WATERING TROUGH: 
    	Bob, looking off scene and seeing John coming 
    	toward him, hunts for something with which to 
    	defend himself.  Finally, under the trough, he 
    	discovers a stout club and picks it up. Then he 
    	awaits John's approach, in a defiant attitude.
     
    425.	SIDEYARD--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	John stops for a moment, looks toward house, 
    	and calls to Mary and Mrs. Heath.
     
    426.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	Mary and Mrs. Heath are still standing in the 
    	doorway leading to Mary's room, as they hear 
    	John call.
     
    427.	SIDEYARD--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	As no one appears at side door in response to 
    	his call, John turns and runs toward watering 
    	trough.
     
    428.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	Mrs. Heath, having heard John call, goes to the 
    	side door to see what he wants. Mary follows 
    	her.
     
    429.	CLOSE SHOT ON BOB:
    	Bob, club in hand, has moved away from the 
    	watering trough and stands waiting John's 
    	approach.  John enters scene and goes to Bob.
     
    430.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB: 
    	A flash of Bob as, with face clouded with 
    	anger, he tells John to get off the place.
     
    431.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN: 
    	A flash of John as he tells Bob to wait a 
    	moment and listen to what he has to say.
     
    432.	SIDEYARD--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Mrs. Heath, having come out of the house in 
    	answer to John's call, stands on the steps to 
    	the side porch.  She looks off scene and sees 
    	John and Bob, the latter in a very threatening 
    	attitude.  Fearing that the two young men are 
    	about to engage in a physical encounter, Mrs. 
    	Heath hurriedly exits toward them, followed by 
    	Mary.
     
    433.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND BOB:
    	Bob is still threatening John, when Mrs. Heath 
    	and Mary run into scene and take their places 
    	beside Bob.
     
    434.	CLOSE-UP ON MRS. HEATH AND BOB: 
    	A flash of them as they stand there waiting to 
    	hear what John has to say.
     
    435.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
     	John looks at them earnestly and, stretching 
    	out his hands, says:
     
    SUBTITLE 108:--"I have come to do what I can ..."
    
    	(Scene 435 continued.)  As he says this, his 
    	face lights up with joy at the thought that he 
    	can help them all.
     
    436.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY AND BOB:
    	As Mary realizes that John has come to sacrifice 
    	himself for them, she steps forward impulsively 
    	to thank him; but Bob roughly pulls her back.
     
    437.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	Mrs. Heath looks earnestly at John, waiting to 
    	hear what more he has to say.  John continues:
     
    SUBTITLE 109:--"I know I can't fill Dave's place--but  
    		I can give you my hands and myself ...."
     
     	(Scene 437 continued.)  As he says this, he 
    	looks at Mrs. Heath imploringly.  He is in 
    	deadly earnest and hopes that she will not 
    	refuse him.
     
    438.	MEDIUM SHOT OF GROUP:
    	As Mary turns her head away to conceal her 
    	emotion, John begins to roll up his sleeves, 
    	preparatory to going to work at once.  Bob, 
    	mistaking John's action and thinking that John 
    	is threatening him, also rolls up his sleeves, 
    	prepared to defend himself if necessary against 
    	John's assault. 
    
    439.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN:
    	John finishes rolling up his sleeves and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 110--"I will work the farm--I'll plow--I'll 
    		harvest the grain ...."
     
    440.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	As John speaks the foregoing title, his face is 
    	tense with emotion; but he is determined to 
    	atone for his mother's sin, even though he must 
    	give up all the years of his youth.
     
    441.	CLOSE-UP ON MRS. HEATH AND BOB: 
    	Both Mrs. Heath and Bob are skeptical of John's 
    	sincerity of purpose.  They look at him fixedly, 
    	not believing that he realizes just what he is 
    	saying.
     
    442.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN:
    	John is not to be deterred in what he has 
    	determined upon.  He says earnestly:
     
    SUBTITLE 111:--"I promise to do Dave's work--the rest 
    		of my life, if you'll only let me."
     
    443.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	A flash of him as he finishes title.
     
    444.	MEDIUM SHOT ON GROUP:
    	As Mrs. Heath has not denied him his request, 
    	John crosses scene, running toward watering 
    	trough.  The others stand and watch him go.  
    	Mrs. Heath is frankly skeptical of his 
    	sincerity of purpose; while Bob, the perpetual 
    	scoffer, thinks it just a sudden whim although 
    	in his heart he hopes that John will not back 
    	down, thus forcing him to take up again the 
    	odious labor on the farm.  To Mary, John's act 
    	is one of supreme self-sacrifice, and her heart 
    	goes out to him.
     
    445.	CLOSE SHOT ON WATERING TROUGH: 
    	John enters to where the horses are standing, 
    	takes hold of the reins, and starts to lead the 
    	horses away.
     
    446.	MEDIUM SHOT ON MARY, BOB, AND MRS. HEATH:
    	A flash of them as they stand watching John.
     
    447.	SIDEYARD--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Shooting toward windmill which appears in 
    	background; the watering trough is in the 
    	middleground.  John leads the horses from the 
    	trough, to take them to the field for the 
    	afternoon plowing.
     
    448.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	With her heart overflowing with pity for his 
    	hard lot in life and yet admiring him for the 
    	nobility of his self-sacrifice, Mary watches 
    	John as he leads the horses away.
     
    449.	MEDIUM SHOT ON MARY, BOB, AND MRS. HEATH:
    	For a moment, they stand there watching John; 
    	then Bob exits, going toward watering trough.  
    	Mary turns and looks at her mother, wondering 
    	what she will say; but Mrs. Heath says nothing 
    	at all.  Into Mary's eyes comes a look of pain 
    	to think that her mother is so unappreciative
    	of the sacrifice John is making for them all.  
    	Mrs. Heath cannot look upon John's act as one 
    	of self-sacrifice.  With her stern sense of 
    	duty, she believes that he is doing no more 
    	than he is really obligated to do in the 
    	circumstances.
     
    450.	CLOSE SHOT ON WATERING TROUGH: 
    	Bob leans against the end of the trough, 
    	watching John.  Seeing that the latter is in 
    	earnest and really intends to do all the work 
    	on the farm, Bob slowly rolls down his sleeves
    	--for him farm work is at an end. Then Bob 
    	glances down at the club in his hand, as much 
    	as to say that he will force obedience from 
    	John Trevor even with a club, if necessary.   
    	(FADE OUT)
     
    SUBTITLE 112. (FADE IN ON) 
    
    		Christmas  (FADE OUT)
     
    451.	CLOSE-UP ON TURKEY (FADE IN): 
    	The months of summer and fall have gone, and 
    	Christmas is at hand.  A fat luscious turkey is 
    	baking in a white enamel pan. The hand of Mrs. 
    	Heath, as she bastes the turkey, shows in the 
    	scene.
     
    452.	CLOSE SHOT ON MRS. HEATH AND PATSY: 
    	Mrs. Heath is kneeling down near oven, basting 
    	the turkey; while Patsy stands at her side 
    	talking to her about the turkey and the 
    	wonderful things she expects to eat with the 
    	turkey.
     
    453.	WOODPILE--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Snow covers the ground as winter has set in in 
    	earnest.  John is discovered at the woodpile, 
    	splitting wood for the kitchen stove.
     
    454.	CLOSE-UP ON WINDOW--HEATH LIVING ROOM: 
    	Mary comes to the window and stands there 
    	watching John as he splits the wood.  She 
    	looks at him pityingly to think that he has to 
    	work so hard to keep them all.
     
    455.	MEDIUM SHOT ON WOODPILE:
    	John gathers up some sticks of wood in his arms 
    	and starts to exit toward the kitchen door.
     
    456.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	Mary stands at the window, watching John as he 
    	approaches the house with his armful of wood.   
    	She sorrowfully turns her head away as she 
    	thinks of how few pleasures he has in life.
     
    457.	EXTERIOR KITCHEN DOOR: 
    	John enters with armful of wood and stands at 
    	the foot of the steps leading to the kitchen 
    	door, looking back at the woodpile.
     
    458.	MEDIUM SHOT ON WOODPILE: 
    	Paul enters, gathers up three sticks of wood 
    	in his little arms, and exits to kitchen door
    	where John is still standing. Paul is very 
    	devoted to John and helps him with his work, 
    	although he is too small to make his efforts 
    	very effective.
     
    459.	EXTERIOR KITCHEN DOOR:
    	Paul, struggling, under the weight of the three 
    	sticks of wood he is carrying, enters to John 
    	who opens the kitchen door.  Together they 
    	start to enter the kitchen.
     
    460.	CLOSE SHOT ON KITCHEN DOOR--INTERIOR: 
    	John and Paul enter with the wood they are
    	carrying.  They stoop down and put the wood in 
    	a box near the door.
     
    461.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	Mary stands near the china closet in the 
    	kitchen, watching John as he works.
     
    462.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN: 
    	John, as if to speak, looks longingly at Mary.
     
    463.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY: 
    	Mary smiles at John reassuringly.  In the face 
    	of tragedy, Mary's love for John has never 
    	faltered.
     
    464.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN: 
    	For a moment John stands there and looks 
    	intently at Mary, then he turns and starts to 
    	exit through the kitchen door.  In the hour of 
    	adversity, he loves her for her faith in him 
    	and in the rectitude of his intentions.
     
    465.	CLOSE SHOT ON KITCHEN DOOR--INTERIOR: 
    	Just a flash as John exits through the doorway.
     
    466.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	Mary still stands near china closet in the
    	kitchen.  Her eyes are suffused with pity as 
    	she thinks of John's hard lot in life--
    	homeless and almost friendless.  Today is 
    	Christmas and is supposed to be a day of good 
    	cheer; but it seems to her that he has nothing 
    	to cheer him, save the hallowing thought of his 
    	self-sacrifice.
     
    467.	EXTERIOR KITCHEN DOOR:
    	Momentarily John stands near the kitchen door, 
    	his heart warmed by the sympathy he had read 
    	in Mary's eyes.  Then he exits toward the barn, 
    	to do the other chores that demand his 
    	attention.
     
    468.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	Mary stands near the china closet, thinking. 
    	"Would it not bring just a little joy into 
    	John's life to have him eat Christmas dinner 
    	with them? As she asks herself this question 
    	she smiles at the happy thought, and starts 
    	toward her mother to get the latter's approval 
    	of her idea.
     
    469.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	Mary moves close to Mrs. Heath and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 113:--"Mother, can't we have John eat dinner
    		--with us--today?" 
    
    	(Scene 469 continued.)  Mrs. Heath's face is 
    	very grave and stern as she looks at Mary 
    	intently and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 114:--"I don't see how you can ask it--our 
    		first Christmas without Dave."
     
    470.	ROAD NEAR HEATH BARN:
    	Shooting from across the road so that the barn 
    	appears in the background.  The roofs of the  
    	barn and the adjoining sheds are heavily 
    	covered with snow.  In the middleground is the 
    	road which has been cleared through the deep 
    	drifts. A sleigh loaded with Bob and some of 
    	his friends, who are coming to Christmas 
    	dinner, drives into the scene.
     
    471.	CLOSE-UP ON WINDOW:
    	From this window, one, who is standing there, 
    	can see and hear what is taking place on the 
    	side porch.  Mary comes to window and stands 
    	there gazing out at the snow-covered ground, sad 
    	to think that she has been unable to bring even 
    	a little happiness into John's life.
     
    472.	MEDIUM SHOT ON SIDE PORCH:
    	Bob's friends enter to side porch, waiting for 
    	him to join them before they go into the house. 
    	Through the window near where she is standing, 
    	Mary sees them and smiles a welcome.
    
    473.	CLOSE SHOT ON BOB AND SLEIGH HORSES: 
    	Bob stands at the horses's heads,looks off 
    	scene and sees John shoveling snow.  Bob calls 
    	to him and beckons to him in a peremptory 
    	manner.
     
    474.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN: 
    	A flash of John as he hears Bob call.
     
    475.	CLOSE SHOT ON BOB AND SLEIGH HORSES: 
    	In Bob's estimation, John has never been 
    	anything but a hired man since he began work on 
    	the farm to atone for his mother's sin. Bob 
    	points to the horses and calls out insolently 
    	to John:
     
    SUBTITLE 115:--"Hey you! Blanket the horses and feed 
    		'em." 
    
    	(Scene 475 continued.)  Having said this, Bob 
    	starts to exit from the scene.
     
    476.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	A flash of John as he starts to where Bob has 
    	left the horses.
     
    477.	MEDIUM SHOT ON SIDE PORCH:
    	Bob's friends are still standing on the side 
    	porch when Bob enters the scene.
     
    478.	CLOSE SHOT ON SLEIGH HORSES:
    	John enters, gets a blanket from the sleigh and 
    	throws the blanket over one of the horses.
     
    479.	CLOSE SHOT ON SIDE PORCH:
    	Bob looks back to see if John is tending the 
    	horses.  One of Bob's boy friends, looking 
    	toward John, asks, "Is that John Trevor?" Bob 
    	answers him superciliously:
     
    SUBTITLE 116:--"Sure, that's John Trevor--he's my 
    		hired man now!" 
    
    	(Scene 479 continued.)  The unsympathetic Bob 
    	smiles as he says this, thinking that it is a 
    	great joke.
     
    480.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	A flash of Mary as she gasps when she hears 
    	Bob's unkind remark.
     
    481.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John is standing near the horses' heads, 
    	looking helpless but defiant, as he sees that 
    	Bob is ridiculing him.
     
    482.	CLOSE SHOT ON SIDE PORCH:
    	Bob motions to John, telling him to get to 
    	work, then he and his friends start to enter 
    	the house.
     
    483.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	For a moment John stands there looking 
    	defiantly at Bob, then he starts to blanket the 
    	other sleigh horse.
     
    484.	MEDIUM SHOT ON MARY AND GIRL FRIEND: 
    	Mary is taking the girl's wraps.  One of Bob's
    	boy friends comes up behind Mary and puts a cap 
    	on her head.  She looks at him with a winsome 
    	smile, determined not to let Bob's friends see 
    	that she is sad.
     
    485.	HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	Mary, with the wraps on her arm, starts from 
    	the scene.   Bob and his guests talk animatedly.
     
    486.	CLOSE SHOT ON SLEIGH HORSES:
    	John, having blanketed the other sleigh horse, 
    	pats them, and then starts out of scene.
     
    487.   HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	Shooting so that full length of table shows.
    	Some of the guests are already seated when Mrs. 
    	Heath enters from the kitchen, carrying a 
    	platter on which is the big turkey.  Mary is in 
    	the background, fixing the twins preparatory to 
    	lifting them into their places at the table.
     
    488.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY AND THE TWINS: 
    	Mary has just finished fixing the twins when 
    	Paul, almost crying, looks at her and says with 
    	quivering lips:
     
    SUBTITLE 117:--"Us wants Christmas wif John!" 
    
    	(Scene 488 continued.)  Mary fully sympathizes 
    	with the twins but there is nothing that she 
    	can do.  She too, would like to have had dinner 
    	with John, had not her mother so firmly decided 
    	against it.
     
    489.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	A flash of them as they look reprovingly at 
    	Mary and the twins.
     
    490.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY AND THE TWINS: 
    	A flash of Mary and the twins as Mary looks 
    	toward her mother, hoping that she will relent 
    	at the last minute and let John come to eat 
    	Christmas dinner with them.
     
    491.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	A flash of them as they still look reprovingly 
    	at Mary and the twins.
     
    492.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY AND THE TWINS: 
    	Mary, realizing that the twins' request will 
    	not be granted, takes them in her arms and hugs 
    	them tight.
     
    493.	SIDE YARD--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Shooting toward the barn.  Martin, in his 
    	sleigh, drives into the scene.
     
    494.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BARN DOOR:
    	John comes out of the barn, looks off scene, 
    	sees Martin, and starts to move away.
     
    495.	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN'S SLEIGH HORSES: 
    	Martin, having got out of the sleigh, comes to 
    	horses' heads and insolently calls out to John:
    
    SUBTITLE 118:--"Watch my horses. I'll be right out--
    		I'm taking Mary to the pageant." 
    
    	(Scene 495 continued.)  Martin emphasizes the 
    	fact that he is taking Mary to the pageant
    	knowing that this will wound John.
     
    496.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John looks steadily at Martin and says 
    	determinedly:
     
    SUBTITLE 119:--"I don't take orders from you." 
    
    	(Scene 496 continued.)  The relations between 
    	John and Martin have never been harmonious in 
    	the past because of their rivalry for Mary's 
    	hand; and now John knows that these relations 
    	have reached the breaking point, as he is 
    	determined to take no orders, whatever, from 
    	the caddish Martin. Although voluntarily bound 
    	to serve the Heaths, he is not obligated to do 
    	anything for Martin.
     
    497.	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN'S SLEIGH HORSES: 
    	A flash of Martin as he leaves his place near 
    	the horses' heads and moves toward where John 
    	is standing off scene.
     
    498.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN: 
    	John stands there awaiting Martin's approach, 
    	determined not to yield a single inch.  Martin 
    	enters and advances threateningly toward him.
     
    499.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	A flash of John as he looks fixedly at Martin.
     
    500.	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN:
    	Martin looks sneeringly into John's face and 
    	says:
    
    SUBTITLE 120:--"You'll take orders from anybody. Your 
    		mother took orders to quit running a 
    		gambling place!" 
    
    	(Scene 500 continued.)  Although uncertain 
    	whether or not John will resent this insult yet 
    	he does not for a moment take his eyes off John.  
    	Martin holds John in supreme contempt and has 
    	deliberately insulted him.
     
    501.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	A flash of John as he hears this title, his 
    	face livid with rage.
     
    502.	MEDIUM SHOT ON JOHN AND MARTIN:
    	John, with clenched fist, knocks Martin against 
    	the side of the barn. Martin almost falls but 
    	recovers his balance and clinches with John. As 
    	they struggle violently, John grasps Martin by 
    	the throat and bends him backward to the ground.  
    	Months of hard labor on the farm have put John 
    	in much better physical condition than his 
    	opponent and the latter is no match for him.
     
    503.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	A flash of John.  His face is dark with anger.
     
    504.	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN:
    	A flash of Martin.  His face is distorted with 
    	pain as he gasps for breath.
     
    505.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	A flash of John as Martin shoves his fist into 
    	John's face.
     
    506.	MEDIUM SHOT ON JOHN AND MARTIN: 
    	A flash of them as they still struggle.
     
    507.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	A flash of John as Martin tries to shove his 
    	fingers into John's eyes.
     
    508.	FLASH ON JOHN AND MARTIN:
    	A flash of them as John hurls Martin to the 
    	ground.
     
    509.	MEDIUM SHOT ON JOHN AND MARTIN: 
    	John stands threateningly over the prostrate 
    	Martin and says, in a voice choked with anger:
    
    SUBTITLE 121:--"If you ever say anything about my 
    		mother again, I'll ...."
    
    	(Scene 509 continued.)  Having spoken this 
    	title, John exits from scene leaving Martin to 
    	struggle to his feet as best he may.
     
    510.	HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	Shooting from above so that entire table and 
    	guests are shown as the latter partake of the 
    	Christmas feast. The scene is one of pleasure, 
    	in sharp contrast to the foregoing ones in 
    	which John has had to fight Martin because of 
    	the latter's insolence.  (FADE OUT)
     
    511.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE (FADE IN):
    	Helene, seated alone in the reception room of 
    	her apartment, is very sad and lonely for the 
    	absent John.  On this Christmas day, she more 
    	bitterly than ever feels her loss. Almost at 
    	the breaking point, she has decided that either 
    	John must come back to her or she will go to 
    	him.  So poignant has been her grief at losing 
    	her beloved boy that she has but recently 
    	arisen from a bed of sickness. Her face is 
    	drawn and shows that day and night the tears 
    	have rushed unbidden to her eyes.
     
    512.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John, standing near the woodpile in the Heath
    	farmyard, looks longingly out across the snow-
    	covered fields and wonders what his mother is 
    	doing this Christmas day.  Although he had left 
    	her in loathing, yet months of absence from her 
    	have softened the harshness of the thoughts he 
    	held; and now he wishes that he might see her 
    	again, if only for a little while.
    
    513.	SIDE PORCH--HEATH FARMHOUSE:
    	Bob's guests are just leaving.  Mrs. Heath and 
    	Mary, with one of the twins on either side of 
    	her, have come to the porch to see the guests 
    	depart.  One of the guests says:
     
    SUBTITLE 122:--"We'll meet you at Darienne."
     
    514.	MEDIUM SHOT ON SIDE PORCH:
    	The guests begin to leave, to drive back to 
    	Darienne.  Mrs. Heath stands on the side porch, 
    	watching them go. 
    
    515.	BOB'S SLEIGH:
    	Bob and the twins are now in his sleigh and 
    	start to drive out of the barnyard.  Bob stops 
    	the sleigh for a moment and they all look 
    	toward Mrs. Heath, still standing on the side 
    	porch
     
    516.	CLOSE SHOT ON MRS. HEATH:
    	Mrs. Heath is watching Bob and the twins.
     
    517.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB'S SLEIGH:
    	A flash of the twins as they wave goodbye to 
    	Mrs. Heath.
     
    518.	MEDIUM SHOT OF JOHN:
    	John sees the twins and waves goodbye to them.
     
    519.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB'S SLEIGH:
    	The twins, seeing John, continue to wave their 
    	hands and call out to him:
     
    SUBTITLE 123:--"Goodbye, John." 
    
    	(Scene 519 continued.)  Bob hears the twins call 
    	to John and drives out of the scene.
    
    520.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John's face grows sad as he turns and walks 
    	away.
     
    521.	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN'S SLEIGH:
    	Martin tucks the laprobe around Mary, who
    	looks off scene and sees John.  Martin notes
    	the fact that she is looking at John, and his 
    	eyes gleam with malevolence.
     
    522.	MEDIUM SHOT ON JOHN:
    	John turns away, gets his heavy overcoat, 
    	which is hanging in a shed near the woodpile, 
    	and starts to put it on to go to the cabin.
     
    523.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	Mary looks toward John, pitying him because 
    	all the pleasures of life are denied him.
     
    524.	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN'S SLEIGH:
    	Martin gets into the sleigh, tucks the laprobe 
    	around himself, gives Mary a sarcastic glance, 
    	and drives away.
     
    525.	MEDIUM SHOT ON JOHN:
    	A flash of John as he stands and watches Mary 
    	and Martin drive away.
     
    526.	ROAD NEAR HEATH BARN:
    	Shooting diagonally down the road.  The snow-
    	laden barn and sheds show in background.  
    	Martin and Mary enter in sleigh and exit down 
    	the road.
     
    527.	SEMI-CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John turns and exits to go to cabin.
     
    528.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY AND MARTIN:
    	Martin is driving along, smiling sarcastically. 
    	Suddenly, out of a clear sky, he says:
     
    SUBTITLE 124:--"Still crazy about your hired man?"
     
    529.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	Mary hears Martin's question and is desperately 
    	angry.
     
    530.	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN:
    	Martin sneeringly says, as he sees that Mary is 
    	very angry:
     
    SUBTITLE 125:--"A lot you must have cared for Dave to 
    		love the fellow that helped kill him." 
    
    	(Scene 530 continued.)  Martin watches Mary 
    	intently, as he says this, to see the effect of
    	his remark.  Smarting under the rough treatment 
    	he has received at John's hands and sensing 
    	that he is playing a losing game with Mary's 
    	affections because she does not love him and 
    	never will, Martin does not hesitate to goad 
    	her to desperation.
     
    531.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	As Martin speaks the above title, Mary is more 
    	angry with him than ever.  Although the sleigh 
    	is in motion, Mary starts to get out of it to 
    	get away from the hateful Martin. He grabs her 
    	arm to restrain her, but she struggles out of 
    	his grasp.
     
    532.	CLOSE-SHOT ON MARTIN'S SLEIGH: 
    	Seeing Mary's intention of leaping from the 
    	sleigh and unable to restrain her, Martin 
    	quickly reins in the horses.  Mary leaps out 
    	into a deep drift beside the road, falling 
    	down as she strikes the snow.
     
    533.	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN: 
    	A flash of Martin as he smiles sardonically, 
    	well satisfied with the pain he has caused her.
     
    534.	MEDIUM SHOT ON MARY: 
    	Mary stands in the deep drift beside the road, 
    	almost in tears.  She tells Martin how she 
    	hates him, and never wants to see him again as 
    	long as she lives.
     
    535.	CLOSE-UP ON MARTIN:
    	Martin looks at her with a sneer on his face, 
    	and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 126:--"Give my regards to the hired man." 
    
    	(Scene 535 continued.)  As he says this, he 
    	raises his whip and starts to drive away.
     
    536.	COUNTRY ROAD:
    	Martin gives the horses a crack with the whip 
    	and drives away.  Mary struggles out of the 
    	drift into the roadway, and starts to walk 
    	back to the Heath farmhouse.
     
    537.	CLOSE SHOT ON CABIN FIREPLACE: 
    	John, with a letter in his hand, goes to the 
    	mantel and stands there looking at his 
    	mother's photograph.
     
    538.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John looks earnestly at his mother's 
    	photograph, yearning to see her again and 
    	pitying her because of the grief she feels at 
    	his continued absence.
     
    539.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE'S PHOTOGRAPH: 
    	A flash of the photograph as John looks at it.
     
    540.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	John gazes at the photograph, then takes off 
    	his stocking cap, looks at the letter which he 
    	is holding in his hands, and reads:
     
    INSERT:	"And I know it is worry over your absence 
    		that caused your mother's illness; and,
    		even now, she cries continually.  Won't 
    		you please come to her or let her come to 
    		you? Her heart is breaking and I feel 
    		that ...."
     
    	This letter is written in a scrawly hand, as if 
    	it had been written by one of Helene's servants
    	--probably her maid.  As he reads this letter, 
    	John is in a torment of doubt, uncertain 
    	whether to go to her or have her come to him.
     
    541.	RECEPTION ROOM--HELENE'S APARTMENT:
    	Helene, with her fur coat on her arm, comes to 
    	davenport in the foreground, and drops the coat 
    	on the davenport as the butler enters, hands 
    	her a timetable and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 127:--"Here's the time table, ma'am."
     
    542.	CLOSE SHOT ON HELENE AND BUTLER: 
    	As the butler exits, Helene looks at the 
    	timetable.
     
    INSERT: 	A flash of a New York Central timetable, 
    		followed by a close-up of the same, 
    		partly masked so that the words and 
    		figures "8:41, Darienne, 9:30" stand out 
    		distinctly.  The first figure given is 
    		the time of the train's departure from 
    		New York, the latter figure that of 
    		arrival at Darienne.
     
    543.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE:
     	As Helene stands there looking at the timetable, 
    	she cannot but think of the tragic night when 
    	John, wishing that he had never been born, had 
    	cast her out of his life. INSERT:  A flash of 
    	the time-table and DISSOLVE INTO it the title:   
    	"I wish I had never been born!"  As Helene 
    	seems to hear again this bitter remark that 
    	John had made, her face grows very sad. (FADE 
    	OUT)
     
    544.	HEATH LIVING ROOM--NIGHT.  (FADE IN):
    	Mrs. Heath is seated in a rocking chair near 
    	the fireplace, gazing into the fire with 
    	anxious eyes.  Mary is about to light the 
    	hanging lamp over the table. Mrs. Heath gets up 
    	and goes to the window, looking out as if her 
    	gaze could pierce the darkness which has 
    	settled down over the landscape.  Mary lights 
    	the lamp.  Mrs. Heath, plainly worried, returns 
    	to replace and glances up at the clock--
     
    INSERT:  	A close-up on the clock, showing the 
    		time to be 6:27.  
    
    	Mrs. Heath, noting the hour, turns anxiously to 
    	Mary.
     
    545.	CLOSE-UP ON MRS HEATH:
    	Mrs. Heath, looking at Mary, says:
     
    SUBTITLE 128:--"Bob said they'd be back by six." 
    
    	(Scene 545 continued.)  Intuition tells her 
    	that some accident has befallen Bob and the 
    	twins.
     
    546.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	Mary has her hand on the ring at the base of 
    	the lamp, ready to push it toward the ceiling, 
    	the lamp being one of the old fashioned hanging 
    	kind suspended from the ceiling by chains and  
    	having prisms encircling the painted china 
    	shade.  Mary tries to allay her mother's 
    	anxiety as she says:
     
    SUBTITLE 129:--"Don't worry, mother.  They said the 
    		pageant was going to be awfully long."
     
    547.	HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	As she speaks the foregoing title, she pushes 
    	the hanging lamp toward the ceiling.  She, too, 
    	is worried but feels it her duty to conceal 
    	this fact from her mother.
     
    548.	BOB'S SLEIGH--NIGHT:
    	A blizzard is raging and Bob, blinded by the 
    	fury of the storm, has got off the main road. 
    	The horse plunges wildly as it tries to drag 
    	the sleigh through the drifts.
     
    549.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB'S SLEIGH--NIGHT: 
    	Bob lashes the struggling horse with the whip. 
    	Paul looks up at Bob and asks:
    
    SUBTITLE 130:--"Are we 'most home, Bob?" 
    
    	(Scene 549 continued.)  Bob cannot tell Paul 
    	how desperate is their predicament. He tries to 
    	calm him, covering him up with the laprobe 
    	against the flying snow.   (NOTE to Art 
    	Department:  In shooting the foregoing title 
    	and all others that appear during the storm 
    	sequence, double expose drifting snow into 
    	titles.)
     
    550.	BOB'S SLEIGH--NIGHT:
    	The horse is now down on its haunches, vainly 
    	striving to move the sleigh out of a drift.  
    	Bob lashes the horse with the whip; and, with a 
    	terrific effort, the horse, becoming more and 
    	more terrified, moves the sleigh out of the 
    	scene.
     
    551.	INTERIOR CABIN:
    	Shooting toward door and window. A candle, the 
    	only light in the cabin, is burning on the 
    	little table which appears in the foreground. 
    	John is standing near the door, his brow 
    	knitted in deep meditation.  Outside the storm 
    	is raging, becoming more violent as the minutes 
    	pass.  John turns from door, goes to the 
    	window, and watches the storm, then comes to 
    	the table in foreground.
     
    552.	BOB'S SLEIGH--NIGHT:
    	The horse, having succeeded in getting the 
    	sleigh out of the drift, now comes struggling 
    	along trying to pull it over a rise in the 
    	ground. The horse has become terrorized with 
    	fright.
     
    553.	HILLSIDE--NIGHT:
    	The horse comes plunging into the scene, rushes 
    	wildly down the hill, and tips over the sleigh.
     
    554.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BOB AND THE TWINS--NIGHT:
    	As the sleigh tips over, Bob and the twins come 
    	rolling down the hillside into the foreground.  
    	Further up the hill is the sleigh, turned over 
    	on one side. The horse in tipping over the 
    	sleigh has broken the harness and being free 
    	has set out to find its way back to the shelter 
    	of the Heath barn.
     
    555.	HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	Mary is seated in a corner of the room, vainly 
    	trying to read, as she listens for every sound 
    	that may announce the coming of Bob and the 
    	twins.  Mrs. Heath, as she rocks slowly back 
    	and forth in her chair before the fireplace, 
    	gazes anxiously into the fire.  Her mind is 
    	greatly agitated at the fact that Bob and the 
    	twins have not yet come, but she shows great 
    	repression in all of her actions.
     
    556.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BOB AND THE TWINS--NIGHT:
    	Bob gathers up the twins in his arms and 
    	starts to take them up the hill to the shelter
    	of the overturned sleigh.
     
    557.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN--CABIN:
    	John picks up the letter from the table and 
    	re-reads it.
      
    INSERT:	"And I know it is worry over your absence 
    		that caused your mother's illness; and, 
    		even now, she cries continually.  Won't 
    		you please come to her or let her come to 
    		you?  Her heart is breaking and I feel 
    		that ...."
     
    	(Scene 557 continued.)  (NOTE: Insert a flash 
    	of this sufficiently long to identify it with 
    	the letter previously shown.) As John re-reads 
    	this letter, he makes up his mind to go to his 
    	mother. Getting paper and pencil, he sits down 
    	at the table and writes.
     
    558.   CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
           John hurriedly writes a note.
     
    INSERT:	"I am leaving on this evening's train.
     
    				John."
    
     	John folds up the note.
    
    559.	MEDIUM SHOT ON JOHN--CABIN:
    	Knowing that, when he does not appear at the 
    	farmhouse in the morning, Mary will come to the 
    	cabin to see what has become of him, John 
    	places the folded note under the candle where 
    	she can find it in the morning.
     
    560.	OVERTURNED SLEIGH--NIGHT:
    	Bob has carried the twins into the shelter of 
    	the overturned sleigh.  Knowing that, unless he 
    	can find the road that leads to the farmhouse, 
    	both he and the twins must perish in the storm, 
    	Bob calms them as best he may and says:
      
    SUBTITLE 131:--"Stay here--I'll be right back!"
     
    561.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BOB AND THE TWINS--NIGHT:
    	Having carefully covered up the twins with the 
    	laprobe and assured them that he will come 
    	right back to them, Bob exits to get the 
    	lantern and attempt to find the road.
     
    562.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN--CABIN:
    	John puts on his overcoat and stocking cap, 
    	blows out the candle, and exits from the cabin.  
    	(FADE OUT)
     
    563.	CLOSE-UP ON CLOCK--HEATH FARMHOUSE: (FADE IN) 
    	The clock now shows the time to be 8:03.
     
    564.	EXTERIOR HEATH FARMHOUSE--NIGHT: 
    	The violence of the storm is mounting. The 
    	branches of the trees near the house are 
    	whipped about by the wind.
     
    565.	MEDIUM SHOT ON MARY AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	Mary is standing at the window near the 
    	fireplace.  She turns and looks anxiously at 
    	her mother who still sits there, gazing into 
    	the fire and greatly worried because the twins 
    	and Bob have not yet come.
     
    566.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BOB--NIGHT:
    	Bob, with lighted lantern in hand, comes 
    	struggling through the snow and exits.  
    	Although he knows that there is no one to hear 
    	him, yet in desperation he calls wildly for 
    	help.
     
    567.	CLOSE-UP ON TWINS--NIGHT:
    	The twins are crusted with the drifting snow. 
    	The sobbing Paul tries to calm his little
    	sister, saying:
     
    SUBTITLE 132:--"If you cry, you'll get big ithicles 
    		on your nose." 
    
    	(Scene 567 continued.)  Together they lie down 
    	and try to comfort each other.
     
    568.	INTERIOR RAILROAD STATION:
    	John enters railroad station and goes toward 
    	ticket window.  This is the ordinary country 
    	station, with double bench in the middle of the 
    	floor and a large coal stove in one corner of 
    	the room.
     
    569.	CLOSE-UP ON TICKET WINDOW:
    	John enters to window and asks the station 
    	agent about the night-train to New York.
     
    570.	CLOSE-UP ON STATION AGENT--TICKET WINDOW:
    	Shooting from behind ticket window, toward
    	John.  The station agent looks up at John
    	and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 133--"The train to the city is held up by 
    		the storm--it won't be along until 9:30."
     
    571.	CLOSE-UP ON TICKET WINDOW:
    	As the station agent speaks the foregoing title, 
    	John turns and looks off scene at the clock 
    	above the door through which he has entered,
     	notes the length of time that must elapse 
    	before the train's arrival, and starts toward 
    	the stove in the corner of the station.
     
    572.	INTERIOR RAILROAD STATION: 
     	John goes to stove and stands there warming his 
    	hands.
     
    573.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BOB--NIGHT:
    	Bob is still struggling through the drifting 
    	snow.
     
    574.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB--NIGHT: 
    	Bob holds up his lantern and sees a tree begin 
    	to fall, too late to save himself as he is in 
    	direct line with the falling tree.
     
    575.	CLOSE-UP ON TREE--NIGHT: 
    	A flash of the tree as it begins to fall.
     
    576.	FALLING TREE--NIGHT:
    	The tree crashes to the ground and pins the 
    	luckless Bob underneath its branches.
     
    577.	ANGLE OF RAILROAD STATION:
    	Shooting toward the stove in the corner of the 
    	station.  To the right of the stove there is a  
    	window.  John is looking out of the window at 
    	the storm which now seems to be raging more 
    	violently than ever.  The station agent enters 
    	scene with his hat and coat, preparatory to 
    	going out on the station platform.  He puts on 
    	his hat and, while putting on his coat, says 
    	to John:
      
    SUBTITLE 134:--"This is the worst blizzard we've had 
    		in years.  I hope to God nobody's caught 
    		out in it!"
     
    	(Scene 577 continued.)  As the station agent 
    	speaks this title, John turns and looks at him 
    	with alarm.  The station agent exits to station 
    	platform.
     
    578.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN: 
    	John watches the station agent go, then turns 
    	to window and tries to look out into the 
    	darkness.  The station agent's remark has 
    	alarmed him; and he cannot but wonder if his 
    	little friends, the twins, are safe at home 
    	again.  As he turns and looks toward the center 
    	of the room, he sees, in vision, the twins just 
    	as he saw them that afternoon as they waved to 
    	him and said goodbye.  FADE OUT and--
     
    INSERT:	CLOSE-UP ON BOB'S SLEIGH as the twins 
    		wave their hands to him and say:
     
    SUBTITLE 135:--"Goodbye, John." (See scene 519). 
    		FADE OUT. 
     
    	(Scene 578 continued.)  John's face is very 
    	thoughtful as, in his mind's eye, he sees the 
    	twins waving their goodbye.  He has a 
    	premonition that they have been caught out in 
    	the blizzard and determines to go at once to 
    	the Heath farmhouse and see whether or not they 
    	have arrived safely at home.
     
    579.	CLOSE-UP ON FALLEN TREE--NIGHT:
     	Bob slowly drags the upper part of his body 
    	from under the fallen tree, tries to move one 
    	of his legs but cannot do so as it is pinned 
    	fast to the ground by one of the branches.  
    	Terrorized, he calls for help, but his only 
    	answer is the moaning of the wind as it sweeps 
    	across the snow-covered ground.  Bob realizes 
    	that for him and the twins the hours are 
    	numbered, unless succor should miraculously 
    	come.  For the time being he cannot aid himself
    	--let alone the little brother and sister whom 
    	he left in the shelter of the overturned sleigh. 
    	With his face distorted with pain and fear, Bob 
    	sinks down into the snow.
     
    580.	ANGLE OF HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	Shooting toward fireplace and the window which 
    	is to one side. As she gives one hasty glance 
    	at the clock, Mary turns from the fire place 
    	and goes to her mother.  Both of them are tense 
    	with fear for the safety of Bob and the twins, 
    	and vainly try to comfort each other.
    
    581.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BARN DOOR--NIGHT:
    	Snow is heaped up against the barn doors and is  
    	drifting badly.  Bob's sleigh horse, with 
    	broken harness, enters scene and stands near 
    	doors, trying to get into the shelter of the 
    	barn.
     
    582.	CLOSE-UP ON KITCHEN DOORSTEP--NIGHT: 
    	The family fox terrier is at the door, trying 
    	to get in out of the storm.
      
    583.	ANGLE OF HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	Mary and Mrs. Heath, with their arms around 
    	each other, are doing their best to allay each 
    	other's fears but are plainly at the breaking 
    	point in their anxiety.  Mrs. Heath hears the 
    	dog at the door, believes that Bob and the 
    	twins have returned, and her face lights up 
    	with happiness as she hurries to the door, 
    	followed by Mary.
     
    584.	KITCHEN DOOR--INTERIOR:
    	Followed by Mary, Mrs. Heath comes to kitchen 
    	door and opens it, expecting to find Bob and 
    	the twins there. The dog enters, pleased to get 
    	in from the cold. A look of apprehension comes 
    	into Mrs. Heath's face as she sees no one at 
    	the door; but this look quickly passes away, 
    	and she gazes out through the scurrying snow 
    	and sees the horse standing, in the dim light, 
    	near the barn door.
     
    585.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BARN DOOR--NIGHT: 
    	The horse is still standing near the barn door, 
    	trying to get into the barn.
     
    586.	CLOSE SHOT ON KITCHEN DOOR:
    	Mary and Mrs. Heath are standing at the kitchen 
    	door. The light t near the barn is not 
    	sufficient to reveal the fact that the horse is 
    	not still hitched to the sleigh; but Mrs. Heath 
    	now feels assured that, at last, Bob and the  
    	twins have succeeded in making their way home 
    	through the storm.  She starts to go out to the 
    	barn; but Mary draws her back into the kitchen, 
    	takes her mother's scarf, puts on a coat, and 
    	exits through the kitchen door.  Mrs. Heath 
    	quickly closes the door to keep out the cold 
    	wind and the flying snow and for a moment 
    	stands there, her face radiant with happiness 
    	at the thought of Bob's return.
     
    587.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BARN DOOR--NIGHT:
    	Mary runs into scene, goes to horse, and is 
    	almost frantic when she discovers that the 
    	harness is broken and that Bob and the twins 
    	are nowhere in sight.
     
    588.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY AND HORSE--NIGHT:
     	Mary is frantic with terror as she looks at 
    	the broken harness and realizes that some 
    	accident has befallen Bob and the twins.
     
    589.	CLOSE SHOT ON KITCHEN DOOR:
     	Mrs. Heath starts from kitchen door to fix
    	blankets in chairs so as to warm Bob and the 
    	twins when they enter.
     
    590.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BARN DOOR--NIGHT:
    	Mary brushes and kicks the snow away, then 
    	pulls door open so that the horse may enter the 
    	barn.
     
    591.	MEDIUM SHOT ON FIREPLACE: 
    	Mrs. Heath places blankets in the chairs in 
    	front of the fireplace.
     
    592.	CLOSE SHOT ON KITCHEN DOOR:
    	Mary quickly enters and stands there looking
    	off scene at her mother.  Mary is greatly 
    	agitated at her discovery of the broken
    	harness.
    
    593.	KITCHEN DOOR--INTERIOR:
    	Mary's eyes are opened wide with terror, as 
    	she advances toward foreground to meet her 
    	mother.  In a voice shaken with fear, Mary 
    	says:
     
    SUBTITLE 136:--"Bob's horse is loose--without the 
    		sleigh! Something's happened!"
     
    	(Scene 593 continued.)  As Mary speaks this 
    	title, Mrs. Heath almost collapses.  She clasps 
    	her hands in the agony of fear that Bob and the 
    	twins have perished in the blizzard.   Mary 
    	exits to her own room. Something must be done 
    	immediately.  She will go to the cabin and get 
    	John Trevor to hunt for the missing ones!
     
    594.	MEDIUM SHOT ON DOOR OF MARY'S ROOM:
    	Shooting from the living room so as to show 
    	foot of bed in middleground.  Mary enters, 
    	throws the scarf on the footboard, sits on bed, 
    	and starts to put on heavy shoes.
     
    595.	CLOSE SHOT ON MRS. HEATH:
    	With hands outstretched imploringly, Mrs. Heath 
    	starts toward Mary's room.
     
    596.	CLOSE SHOT ON DOOR OF MARY'S ROOM:
    	Mrs. Heath goes to Mary who is now dressed in 
    	heavy winter wraps.  Together they stand in the 
    	doorway.  Mary, realizing that there is not a 
    	moment to be lost as the predicament of Bob and 
    	the twins is necessarily a desperate one, says:
     
    SUBTITLE 137:--"I'm going to get John--he'll find 
    		them!"
     
     	(Scene 596 continued.)  As Mary exits from the 
    	scene, Mrs. Heath looks at her appealingly. 
    	Mary's love for John has never died nor has her 
    	faith in him ever wavered--he will not fail her 
    	in her hour of need!
     
    597.	CLOSE SHOT ON SIDE DOOR:
    	Mary has entered to door, when the door 
    	suddenly opens, and John comes hurriedly in.
     
    598.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	Mary is overjoyed to see him. Impulsively she 
    	raises her arms to put them around his neck.
     
    599.	CLOSE SHOT ON SIDE DOOR:
    	Mary throws her arms around John's neck and 
    	hugs him tight.
     
    600.	CLOSE-UP ON MRS. HEATH:
    	Mrs. Heath is surprised that Mary should so far 
    	forget herself as to hug John.  Even though the 
    	lives of Bob and the twins are hanging in the 
    	balance and John is the only one on earth who 
    	can bring her lost ones back to her, yet she 
    	believes that Mary but demeans herself by thus 
    	showing her love for John.
     
    601.	CLOSE SHOT ON SIDE DOOR:
    	Mary stands close to John, puts her hands on 
    	his shoulders and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 138:--"Something has happened to Bob and the 
    		twins!"
     
    	(Scene 601 continued.)  She tells him that they 
    	should have returned at six.  Gently John takes 
    	her in his arm and assures her that he will do 
    	all in his power to find Bob and the twins. 
    	Mary goes to corner and gets a pair of snowshoes 
    	which she gives to John, then she exits to the 
    	kitchen to get a lantern. John bends down and 
    	hurriedly puts on the snowshoes.
     
    602.	CLOSE SHOT ON LANTERN:
    	Mary enters, takes the lantern down from the 
    	nail on which it is hanging and exits toward 
    	John.
     
    603.	ANGLE OF HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	Mrs. Heath is watching John as he puts on the 
    	snowshoes.  John rises and takes the lantern 
    	from Mary, who has just entered. Mary goes to 
    	him and stands there looking at him with 
    	adoring eyes.
     
    604.	CLOSE-UP ON MRS. HEATH:
     	Mrs. Heath's face hardens in protest at Mary's 
    	action.
     
    605.	ANGLE OF HEATH LIVING ROOM:
     	Mary throws her arms around John's neck and 
    	kisses him devotedly. John quickly turns and 
    	exits through door.  Mary goes to door, closes 
    	it, and stands there looking at her mother.
     
    606. 	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
     	Mary soberly looks at her mother, grieved to 
    	think that she did not even speak to John when 
    	he was about to plunge out into the raging 
    	storm to risk his life for Bob and the twins.
     
    607.	ANGLE OF HEATH LIVING ROOM: 
    	Mary goes to her mother's side.
     
    608.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY:
    	Mary looks sadly at her mother, and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 139:--"He has gone out in that storm to 
    		risk his life for us, and you wouldn't 
    		even speak to him."
     
    	(Scene 608 continued.)  As she says this, her 
    	eyes are moist with tears.  She is indeed 
    	grieved to think that her mother could not 
    	bring herself to offer at least a little 
    	encouragement to John.  To her, Mrs. Heath has 
    	seemed unnecessarily severe.
     
    609.	ANGLE OF HEATH DINING ROOM:
    	Mary goes to window and looks out, wondering if 
    	John will be able to effect the rescue of Bob 
    	and the twins or whether they are all four 
    	doomed to perish in the storm.  Mrs. Heath, 
    	feeling the weight of Mary's rebuke, bows her 
    	head in sorrow.
     
    610.	ANGLE OF STORM--NIGHT:
    	John is but faintly seen as he walks through 
    	the snow, calling loudly to Bob whom he hopes 
    	may hear his voice above the whistling of the 
    	wind as it wildly sweeps across the snow-covered 
    	ground.
     
    611.	PLATFORM OF RAILROAD STATION--NIGHT:
    	This station is the small one at Darienne on 
    	the New York Central lines.   The train comes 
    	into scene slowly and stops.
     
    612.	MEDIUM SHOT ON JOHN--NIGHT:
    	John, as he comes to foreground carrying the 
    	lighted lantern, is calling loudly to Bob.
     
    613.	PLATFORM OF RAILROAD STATION  NIGHT:
    	Conductor enters with Helene, who carries a 
    	small grip in her hand and has on a heavy fur 
    	coat.
     
    614.	CLOSE SHOT ON HELENE--NIGHT:
    	For a moment Helene looks around anxiously and 
    	then starts toward the railroad station.
     
    615.	MEDIUM  SHOT  ON JOHN--NIGHT:
    	John calls loudly to Bob. Suddenly he hears 
    	Bob's answering call and starts to exit to 
    	him.
     
    616.	CLOSE SHOT ON HELENE AND STATION AGENT--NIGHT:
    	The station agent points in the direction in 
    	which the Heath farm lies, and says to Helene:
     
    SUBTITLE 140:--"The Heath farm is over yonder--but 
    		you couldn't hire anybody to drive that 
    		far in the blizzard!"
     
    	(Scene 616 continued.)  For a moment Helene 
    	gazes about her, not knowing what to do. Then, 
    	seeming to sense a diminution in the violence 
    	of the storm, she decides that she can find her 
    	way across the fields as it is much shorter 
    	than by the road which runs past the Heath 
    	farm. Urged on by the overpowering desire to 
    	see her loved boy again, she determines to go 
    	to him at once and starts to exit from the 
    	scene.
     
    617.	CLOSE SHOT ON FALLEN TREE--NIGHT:
    	Bob raises himself up on one elbow and calls to 
    	John, as he sees the bobbing lantern which 
    	marks John's approach.
     
    618.	MEDIUM SHOT ON JOHN--NIGHT:
    	John, making his way slowly and still uncertain 
    	just where Bob is, comes through the snow, 
    	calling to Bob.
     
    619.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB--FALLEN TREE--NIGHT: 
    	Bob, with his face twisted with pain and 
    	fearful lest John may fail to discover his 
    	whereabouts, calls loudly for help.
     
    620.	MEDIUM SHOT ON JOHN--NIGHT:
    	John hears Bob's call for help and at last 
    	determines the general direction from which the 
    	call comes.  He exits toward where Bob lies 
    	pinned down beneath the fallen tree.
     
    621.	FALLEN TREE--NIGHT:
    	John enters scene and goes to Bob, as fast as 
    	the cumbersome snowshoes will permit.
     
    622.	CLOSE SHOT ON FALLEN TREE--NIGHT: 
    	John begins to extricate Bob from beneath the 
    	branches of the fallen tree.
     
    623.	MEDIUM SHOT ON HELENE--NIGHT:
    	Helene comes stumbling through the deep drifts,  
    	rapidly tiring with her exertions in fighting 
    	her way against wind and snow.  At last, 
    	unable longer to keep her feet, she falls down 
    	but finally struggles to her feet again and 
    	plunges on through the storm, uncertain now of 
    	the direction in which she is going.
     
    624.	FALLEN TREE--NIGHT:
    	After a strenuous effort, John finally succeeds 
    	in dragging Bob from beneath the branches of 
    	the fallen tree; but Bob's foot pains him so 
    	that, for the time being, he is unable to walk.
     
    625.	HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	Mary is standing at the window, looking out 
    	anxiously into the storm.  Mrs. Heath slowly 
    	rocks back and forth in the chair before the 
    	fireplace as she gazes fixedly at the fire, 
    	listening for the slightest sound that may 
    	proclaim the coming of Bob and the twins.  The 
    	minutes, seeming like a very eternity of time, 
    	slowly tick themselves away.
     
    626.	EXTERIOR HEATH FARMHOUSE--NIGHT: 
    	The violence of the storm is rapidly mounting. 
    	A tree near the corner of the house sways with 
    	the wind, totters, and falls with a crash.
     
    627.	HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	Mary, startled, jumps back from the window as 
    	the tree falls and strikes the house.  Mrs. 
    	Heath gasps with sudden fear.  Smoke from the 
    	fireplace pours into the room, almost choking 
    	them.  Mary comes and kneels down beside her 
    	mother's chair to comfort her.
     
    628.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY AND MRS. HEATH:
    	Mary, though she herself is thoroughly 
    	frightened because the storm has increased its 
    	fury, tries to reassure her mother and calm her 
    	fears.
     
    629.	ANGLE OF STORM--NIGHT:
    	John, still carrying Bob on his back, makes his 
    	way slowly through the snow. 
    
    630.	HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	Mary is still trying to calm her mother's fears.   
    	Even though she stands on the very brink of 
    	despair, Mary cannot give up hope that John will 
    	rescue Bob and the twins.
     
    631.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BOB'S SLEIGH--NIGHT:
    	Still carrying Bob, John enters and carefully 
    	puts him on the ground close to the overturned 
    	sleigh.  Then he begins to search for the twins 
    	who are nowhere in sight.
     
    632.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN--NIGHT:
    	A look of horror comes to John's face as he 
    	discovers that the twins are no longer there. 
    	Here is a calamity, indeed.  He calls out to 
    	Bob:
     
    SUBTITLE 141:--"They're gone!"
     
    633.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BOB'S SLEIGH--NIGHT:
    	Vainly John looks around, uncertain for the
    	moment what to do.  Bob, spurred to action by 
    	this desperate predicament in which they find 
    	themselves, struggles partly to his feet and 
    	looks around.  He cannot bring himself to 
    	believe that the twins have actually wandered 
    	away from the shelter of the overturned sleigh. 
    	Then as he sees them nowhere, he realizes that 
    	they are indeed gone.  Perhaps their footprints 
    	have not yet been fully obliterated by the 
    	drifting snow.
     
    634.	CLOSE-UP ON MRS. HEATH: 
    	Mrs. Heath is still gazing blankly at the fire. 
    	Mary comes to her. Tragedy stalks abroad, and 
    	mother and daughter are becoming more and more 
    	fearful as the minutes pass.
     
    635.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BOB'S SLEIGH--NIGHT: 
    	John and Bob are looking for footprints in the 
    	snow.  Suddenly, Bob points to the ground and 
    	they see--
     
    636.	CLOSE-UP ON FOOTPRINTS IN SNOW--NIGHT: 
    	A flash of the twins' footprints in the snow, 
    	partially drifted over.
     
    637.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BOB'S SLEIGH--NIGHT: 
    	John starts to lift Bob on his back again to 
    	follow the footprints in the snow.
     
    638.	ANGLE OF STORM--NIGHT:
    	The twins, having set out to find Bob, are 
    	making their way with great difficulty through 
    	the drifting snow.
     
    639.	CLOSE-SHOT ON HELENE--NIGHT:
    	Helene, with uncertain steps, comes stumbling 
    	through the fast-deepening snow.
     
    SUBTITLE 142:--Lost!
     
    	(Scene 639  continued.)  She has lost all 
    	sense of direction and, having wandered around 
    	aimlessly for some time, is about to give up 
    	the unequal struggle.  What little strength she 
    	has is rapidly ebbing away.
     
    640.	MEDIUM SHOT ON TWINS--LOG--NIGHT: 
    	The twins come to a log. Patsy lies down in the 
    	shelter of it.  Paul looks around vainly, 
    	wondering what he can do.  The twins, too, are 
    	lost and are terrorized because they have been 
    	unable to find Bob.
     
    641.	CLOSE-UP ON MARY AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	Mary and her mother clasp each other in their 
    	arms, fearing that the worst has happened.
     
    642.	MEDIUM SHOT ON TWINS--LOG--NIGHT: 
    	Paul gazes around helplessly, then lies down by 
    	Patsy's side so that they can keep each other 
    	as warm as possible.
     
    643.	ANGLE OF STORM-NIGHT:
    	John, still carrying Bob and following 
    	footprints in the snow, moves into foreground.
     
    644.	CLOSE SHOT ON TWINS--NIGHT:
    	The twins are lying huddled together. The 
    	drifting snow is fast covering them.
     
    645.	LOG--NIGHT:
    	Helene, still stumbling along but about to sink 
    	down from utter exhaustion, comes to the log.
     
    646.	ANGLE OF STORM--NIGHT:
    	John, still carrying Bob on his back, follows 
    	the footprints in the snow.
     
    647.	MEDIUM SHOT ON HELENE--LOG  NIGHT: 
    	Helene falls prone near the log, struggles 
    	uncertainly to her tired feet and with one last 
    	despairing effort is about to plunge on, when 
    	she suddenly looks down at the log and 
    	discovers the twins huddled together there.
     
    648.	CLOSE-UP ON TWINS--LOG--NIGHT:
    	A flash of them as they lie there huddled 
    	together.
     
    649.	MEDIUM SHOT ON HELENE--LOG--NIGHT: 
    	A flash of Helene as she starts to go to the 
    	twins.
     
    650.	LOG--NIGHT:
    	Helene goes to twins, kneels down beside them, 
    	and starts to brush away the drifted snow.
     
    651.	MEDIUM SHOT ON HELENE--LOG--NIGHT: 
    	Helene helps the twins to their feet, puts them 
    	inside her fur coat, and starts to lie down 
    	with them to shelter them and keep them warm.
    
    652.	HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	Mary and her mother are in the very depths of 
    	despair.  Mary glances anxiously toward door.
     
    653.	LOG--NIGHT:
    	John, still carrying Bob, comes into scene and 
    	sees someone lying near the log.
     
    654.	CLOSE SHOT ON LOG--NIGHT:
    	A flash of the twins and Helene as they lie in 
    	the snow near the log.
     
    655.	LOG--NIGHT:
    	John carries Bob to a spot on the ground from 
    	which the snow is partly blown away, puts him 
    	down, and starts toward Helene and the twins.
     
    656.	MEDIUM SHOT ON LOG--NIGHT:
    	John goes to log, kneels down, and starts to
    	brush the snow away.  He draws Paul out from 
    	beneath the shelter of Helene's fur coat and 
    	sends him out of scene to Bob. Then he starts 
    	to get Patsy.
     
    657.	CLOSE SHOT ON BOB--NIGHT:
    	Bob holds out his hands to Paul who enters 
    	from fallen log.  Bob clasps Paul tight in his
    	arms, overjoyed to think that his little
    	brother and sister are safe.
     
    658.	MEDIUM SHOT ON LOG--NIGHT:
    	John gets Patsy from out beneath the fur coat, 
    	sends her to the waiting Rob, and then returns 
    	to the other figure lying prone in the snow. 
    	Although he realizes that this figure is that 
    	of a woman yet he does not know that his mother 
    	is so close at hand.
     
    659.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND HELENE--NIGHT:
    	John, still unsuspecting that the woman 
    	beside him is Helene, brushes away the snow 
    	from her face to discover who she is. Suddenly 
    	he gazes at her intently and can scarcely 
    	believe his eyes as he sees his mother beside 
    	him.
     
    660.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN--NIGHT:
     	A flash of John as he looks at his mother 
    	spellbound.
     
    661.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE--NIGHT:
    	A flash of Helene as her eyes open wide in her 
    	discovery that the boy beside her is none other 
    	than her dearly beloved son.
     
    662.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND HELENE--NIGHT: 
    	A flash of them as they hug each other tight, 
    	too overjoyed for words.
     
    663.	CLOSE SHOT ON BOB AND TWINS--NIGHT: 
    	A flash of Bob as he looks off scene and sees 
    	Helene there.  He has not the slightest idea 
    	who she is.
     
    664.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND HELENE--NIGHT: 
    	John hugs his mother close to his breast and
    	calls out to Bob: "This is my mother!" Helene, 
    	exhausted, sinks back into the snow. John tries 
    	to lift her to her feet but she is unable to 
    	stand.  Helene says:
     
    SUBTITLE 143:--"I can go no farther, John--I'm too 
    		weak--leave me--take the children."
     
    	(Scene 664 continued.)  As she falteringly says 
    	this, she looks at him with appealing eyes in 
    	which the light of eternal love is shining.  
    	She has found him again, and knows that he 
    	still loves her as of yore--this to her is 
    	sufficient.
      
    665.	CLOSE SHOT ON BOB AND TWINS--NIGHT:
    	A flash of Bob and the twins as he clasps them 
    	tight to his breast and looks off scene at John 
    	and Helene.
     
    666.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND HELENE--NIGHT: 
    	John implores his mother not to give up. He 
    	loves her too deeply to lose her now.
     
    667.	CLOSE-UP ON HELENE  NIGHT:
    	Helene's strength has given out.  She can go
    	no further.  With her face hallowed by the 
    	self-sacrifice she is making for Mrs. Heath, 
    	she says:
     
    SUBTITLE 144:--"Tell their mother--I send her three
    		--for the one I took."
     
    668.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND HELENE--NIGHT:
    	John hugs her tight and kisses her fondly. He 
    	begs her not to give up hope as he will come 
    	back for her when he has Bob and the twins safe 
    	in the farmhouse.  If only she can keep alive 
    	until then, all will be well.
     
    669.	LOG--NIGHT:
    	Helene begs John to go and leave her, so that 
    	he may save Bob and the twins.
     
    670.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN--NIGHT:
    	A flash of John as his face is distorted with 
    	agony at the thought of having to leave Helene 
    	there. 
     
    671.	LOG--NIGHT:
    	John goes to Bob and the twins, gathers the 
    	twins up in his arms, helps Bob to his feet, 
    	and starts out of scene.  Bob, though 
    	painfully hurt, nevertheless hobbles along, 
    	holding to John's hand.  Helene watches them as 
    	they go, rejoicing that her beloved John is 
    	able to rescue them even though she may perhaps 
    	meet death ere John can return for her.  
    
    	(FADE OUT)
     
    672.	HEATH LIVING ROOM  (FADE IN):
    	Mrs. Heath at fireplace has given up hope of 
    	ever seeing her children again.   Mary is 
    	almost distracted with grief as she goes to 
    	comfort her mother, just as the door flies open 
    	and John enters with Bob and the twins.
     
    673.	MEDIUM SHOT ON MARY AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	A flash of them as they turn and look toward 
    	the door, overjoyed at the sight which greets 
    	their eyes.
     
    674.	HEATH LIVING ROOM:
    	As John comes in with Bob and the twins, Mrs. 
    	Heath and Mary go to him. Mrs. Heath takes the 
    	twins, puts them into one of the blanketed 
    	chairs, and starts to take off their wet 
    	clothes.  With Mary's assistance, Bob hobbles 
    	to the other chair.
     
    675.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN:
    	A flash of John as he stands near the door, 
    	panting with his exertion.
      
    676.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BOB, MARY, AND MRS. HEATH:
    	Mrs. Heath is now kneeling in front of the 
    	twins, almost overcome with joy that they are 
    	still alive.  Mary pats her brother 
    	affectionately, but Bob is still very much 
    	wrought up with the experiences through which 
    	he has passed.  He struggles to his feet, and,
    	pointing toward John, says excitedly:
     
    SUBTITLE 145:--"His mother is out there--in the
                storm!  His mother, I tell you!"
    
    	(Scene 676 continued.)  As he says this, Bob 
    	sinks back into the chair, exhausted.
     
    677.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN:
    	John starts to open the door to go to the 
    	rescue of Helene.  Mary runs to him and takes 
    	his arm.
     
    678.	CLOSE-UP ON MRS. HEATH:
    	Mrs. Heath realizes Helene's desperate plight 
    	and starts toward John with outstretched arms.
    
    679.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND MARY:
    	Mary encourages John who opens the door just as 
    	Mrs. Heath runs into scene.  John quickly 
    	closes the door to hear what she has to say.  
    	Mrs  Heath, looking appealingly at John,says:
    
    SUBTITLE 146:--"John, bring her--here--to us!"
     
    	(Scene 679 continued.)  John can scarcely 
    	believe his ears.  Can Mrs. Heath really mean 
    	what she says? Then his face lights up with joy 
    	as he notes her sincerity.
     
    680. 	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	John throws his arms around her, hugs her tight 
    	to his breast and kisses her fondly. Swept away 
    	by his emotion and gratitude to her for her 
    	kindness, he bends down and kisses her hand.
     
    681.	MEDIUM SHOT ON JOHN, MARY, AND MRS. HEATH:
    	John starts to go out into the storm.  Mary 
    	puts her arms around his neck and kisses him 
    	passionately.  Mrs. Heath wishes him Godspeed 
    	and John, flinging open the door, once more 
    	plunges out into the raging storm. Mary closes 
    	the door behind him and, going to the window, 
    	watches him vanish into the darkness as he 
    	crosses the yard.  (FADE OUT) 
    
    	(FADE IN ON)
     
    SUBTITLE 147:--Dawn.
     
    	(FADE OUT)
     
    682.	HEATH BEDROOM  (FADE IN):
    	John, almost exhausted from his exertions of 
    	the night before, is lying quietly in bed; 
    	while Mrs. Heath sits beside him, watching with 
    	a mother's love.  The door opens and Mary 
    	enters.
     
    683.	MEDIUM SHOT ON MARY AND HELENE: 
    	Mary's face is radiant with joy as she stands 
    	at the door smiling.  Then, hand in hand with  
    	Helene, she leads her into the scene.  Helene, 
    	with wistful eyes, looks anxiously off scene to 
    	where John is lying in the bed.
     
    684.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	John's face is white and drawn but he has
    	recovered somewhat from  his exhaustion. Mrs. 
    	Heath turns her head and looks off scene toward 
    	where Mary and Helene are still standing.
     
    685.	HEATH BEDROOM:
    	Mrs. Heath gets up from the bed, starts toward 
    	Mary and Helene, and says:
     
    SUBTITLE 148:--"He's better now."
     
    686.	MEDIUM SHOT ON MARY, HELENE, AND MRS. HEATH:
    	As Mrs. Heath speaks this title, Helene quietly 
    	enters the room and starts toward bedside.
     
    687.	HEATH BEDROOM:
    	Helene goes to the bed, sits down, and leans 
    	down to John, putting her face close to his.
     
    688.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND HELENE:
    	John looks up admiringly at his mother who 
    	leans down and kisses him affectionately. Then 
    	she gently passes her hand across his brow as 
    	she gazes fondly into his eyes.  He reaches up, 
    	puts his arm around her neck and draws her down 
    	close to him, happy indeed that she has come to 
    	him.
      
    689.	MEDIUM SHOT ON MARY AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	Mary and Mrs. Heath stand watching John and 
    	Helene for a moment, then Mary starts to side 
    	of bed opposite to that on which Helene is 
    	sitting.
     
    690.	HEATH BEDROOM:
    	Mary comes to bedside and stands there watching 
    	John and his mother, while Mrs. Heath stands at 
    	foot of the bed.
     
    691.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND HELENE: 
    	For a moment Helene sits on bed, happy in the 
    	thought that she has won back her beloved boy.
     
    692.	HEATH BEDROOM:
    	Helene gets up from the bed and starts to Mrs. 
    	Heath, who is standing near the foot of the 
    	bed.  Mary sits on bed beside the adored John.  
    	With arms outstretched in a plea for 
    	forgiveness for all the sorrow she has caused 
    	them in the past, Helene falls repentantly on 
    	her knees before Mrs. Heath and puts her arms 
    	around her.
     
    693.	MEDIUM SHOT ON HELENE AND MRS. HEATH: 
    	Mrs. Heath helps Helene to her feet and gently 
    	sits her down on the foot of the bed. Then she 
    	holds her in her arms and tells her that all 
    	the past is forgiven.
     
    694.	HEATH BEDROOM:
    	Mrs. Heath is still sympathizing with Helene 
    	when Bob comes to the door and looks in.
     
    695.	CLOSE-UP ON BOB:
    	Bob smiles sweetly as he sees the scene before 
    	him.  He has learned one of life's greatest 
    	lessons--that one cannot live for oneself alone.
     
    696.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN AND MARY:
    	Mary puts her hand on John's and smiles at him 
    	with adoration.  He pats her hand affectionately 
    	as he gazes up into her brimming eyes.  Through 
    	calm and storm their love has endured and will 
    	go on forever.
     
    	(FADE OUT)
     
    	FADE IN ON 
    
    SUBTITLE 149:--Time keeps pace with youth and love, 
    		and the returning Spring comes smiling 
    		through.
     
    697.	MEDIUM SHOT ON HELENE AND TWINS--GATE: 
    	Spring has come again and with it the wedding 
    	of John and Mary.  On this day, they are 
    	expected to return home from their honeymoon.  
    	Helene and the twins are standing at the 
    	gateway in the picket fence which surrounds the 
    	Heath farmhouse.  All are dressed in light 
    	fluffy clothes, for not only is the day a warm 
    	one but it is a gala one too. Helene is talking 
    	gaily to the twins, who have learned to love 
    	her dearly, as Bob comes down the path from the 
    	house. Bob puts his arms around her 
    	affectionately for he, too, has learned to love 
    	her for her gentleness and kindness.  He talks 
    	to her for a moment and then exits from scene 
    	in the direction in which John and Mary will 
    	come.
     
    698.	MAIL BOX NEAR ROAD:
    	Bob enters on the run, gazes up the road, and 
    	calls back to Helene:  "Here they come!" Then 
    	he starts up the road to meet them.
     
    699.	MEDIUM SHOT ON HELENE AND TWINS--GATE: 
    	Helene and the twins look up the road, watching 
    	for Mary and John.  Mrs. Heath, having heard 
    	Bob call, comes down the walk from the house 
    	and joins Helene and the twins.  The twins wave 
    	their hands and John and Mary draw nearer and 
    	Mrs. Heath throws a kiss to them in welcome.
     
    700.	COUNTRY ROAD:
    	Shooting up the road past the Heath farmhouse.  
    	Mrs. Heath, Helene, and the twins can be seen 
    	at the gate. The buggy in which John and Mary 
    	are riding, coming down the road, enters the 
    	scene rapidly.  The group at the gate move to 
    	road as the buggy drives up.
     
    701.	CLOSE-UP ON JOHN AND MARY IN BUGGY: 
    	John stops the buggy.  Mary affectionately 
    	squeezes John's arm, then turns and sees Bob
    	coming to the side of the buggy.
     
    702.	CLOSE SHOT ON BUGGY:
    	Bob comes to side of buggy. Mary gets out of 
    	the buggy, and Bob gleefully picks her up in 
    	his arms to carry her into the house in state.
     
    703.	CLOSE SHOT ON TWINS:
    	The twins start to throw rice at the 
    	honeymooning pair.
      
    704.	CLOSE SHOT ON BUGGY:
    	John fastens the reins as Bob starts to carry 
    	Mary out of scene.
    
    705.	BUGGY IN ROAD:
    	As Bob carries Mary toward Mrs. Heath and 
    	Helene, John gets out of buggy.
     
    706.	MEDIUM SHOT ON BOB AND MARY: 
    	Bob carries Mary up the gravel walk toward the 
    	house.  John runs into scene and genially slaps 
    	Bob on the back, then he comes back to Mrs. 
    	Heath and Helene who are now standing near the 
    	gate.
     
    707.	CLOSE SHOT ON JOHN, HELENE, AND MRS. HEATH:
    	John comes to Helene and Mrs. Heath, places an 
    	arm around each of them and kisses them both 
    	with filial affection, while the twins look on.  
    	Mrs. Heath says: "Well, let's go into the 
    	house," and, as she says this, they all go up 
    	the path together.  The tragic past is dead but 
    	the future beckons to them, promising happy 
    	years.  (FADE OUT.)
     
    	(FADE IN ON.)
     
    SUBTITLE 150:--The End. 
    
    	(FADE OUT.)
     
     
     
    
    
    Screenplay by Ethel Styles Middleton
    
