# A Christmas Carol

    
    
    
    INT. THE STUDY - NIGHT
    
    Huge gold lettering on the binding of a book.  Quite unexpectedly, it reads:
    
    			GREAT EXPECTATIONS
    
    Beside it on a shelf are other books: OLIVER TWIST, DAVID COPPERFIELD, and, 
    of course, A CHRISTMAS CAROL.  A small hand reaches for this last and pulls 
    it off the shelf.  A sober-faced, young GIRL, maybe ten years old, clutches 
    the book to her bosom and intently carries it out of the room and into:
    
    INT. THE SITTING-ROOM
    
    A cheerily-lit sitting-room in London, England, one Christmas Eve in the 
    1860s.  The girl carries the book to a corner of the room where a man sits 
    before a large picture window revealing a snow covered street under a night 
    sky.  Handsome, in his late twenties, with a pleasant voice, obviously a 
    favorite uncle -- he is surrounded by a noisy circle of children and young 
    adults.  He is to be the NARRATOR of the story.  They are pestering him for 
    something and he is waving them off.
    
    				NARRATOR  
    		I don't know why you should want to hear 
    		this story again.  You must have heard it 
    		a dozen times by now.
    
    				THE SKEPTICAL ADOLESCENT
    		A hundred.
    
    				THE ADOLESCENT WHO 
    				WISHED HE WAS AN ADULT
    		A thousand.  But it's good for a laugh.
    
    				THE SKEPTICAL ADOLESCENT
    		And it's your story as much as it is 
    		anyone's.  Isn't it?
    
    				NARRATOR 
    			(genuine modesty)
    		Maybe it is.  But I'm not sure I'm 
    		necessarily the right one to tell it.
    
    				THE SKEPTICAL ADOLESCENT
    		Aw, that's not true.  Grandmother says 
    		you're the only one who knows how to tell 
    		it right.
    
    The others, particularly the younger children, murmur agreement. The ten year 
    old girl presses through the little crowd with the book in her hand.
    
    				THE TEN YEAR OLD GIRL
    		Please.  We want to hear it from you.
    
    She hands the Narrator the book.  He smiles at it and sets it in his lap 
    unopened as the ten year old girl sits at his feet.  Slowly, some of the 
    others begin to sit down too.
    
    				NARRATOR 
    			(off the book)
    		Oh, now, you know, I don't really need this.  
    
    The Narrator, staring at the book, is suddenly lost in thought and talks as 
    much to himself as to the others.
    
    				NARRATOR 
    		I've been telling this story every Christmas 
    		now for oh, I don't know how many years.  
    		Since I was a boy.  And I know it by heart.  
    		It always begins the same way.
    
    A pause.
    
    				THE TEN YEAR OLD GIRL 
    			(very quietly)
    		How does it begin?
    
    The Narrator abruptly looks up.  Everyone is now seated.  They stare at him 
    expectantly.  And without any warning, he begins.
    
    				NARRATOR 
    		Old Marley was as dead as a door-nail.  
    		This must be distinctly understood or 
    		nothing wonderful can come of the story 
    		I am going to relate. So, remember, Old 
    		Marley was as dead as a door-nail.   The 
    		registrar of his burial was signed by 
    		Ebenezer Scrooge.  And Scrooge's name was 
    		good on the London Exchange for anything 
    		he chose to put his hand to.
    
    As he speaks, the view of the street through the window behind him blurs and 
    resolves itself into a view of the London Exchange.
    
    INT.  THE LONDON EXCHANGE - DAY
    
    Late afternoon on Christmas Eve, in the year 1843.  The Exchange is packed 
    with well-dressed businessmen who hurry up and down, and chink the money in 
    their pockets, and converse in groups, and look at their watches, and trifle 
    thoughtfully with their great gold seals; and so forth. Among their number 
    is a FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN who chats with a RED-FACED MAN WITH A 
    PENDULOUS EXCRESCENCE.  Also present is a man with a sharp and bitter face 
    -- and as bald as Patrick Stewart, give or take a hair.  This is EBENEZER 
    SCROOGE.  Scrooge is bundling up his coat and heading for the exit when the 
    fat man makes eye contact with him.
    
    				FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN
    		Ah, Mister Scrooge...
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Your servant, sir.
    
    				FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN
    		Are you off home to keep Christmas?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I am not in the habit of keeping Christmas, 
    		sir.
    
    				RED-FACED MAN WITH A
    				PENDULOUS EXCRESCENCE
    		Then why are you leaving so early?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Christmas has a habit of keeping men from 
    		doing business.
    
    				RED-FACED MAN WITH A
    				PENDULOUS EXCRESCENCE
    		Come, it's in the nature of things that ants 
    		toil and grasshoppers sing and play, Mister 
    		Scrooge.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		An ant is what it is and a grasshopper is what 
    		it is and Christmas, sir, is a humbug.  Good 
    		day.
    
    The two men laugh at Scrooge as he exits the Exchange.
    
    								DISSOLVE TO:
    
    EXT. THE LONDON EXCHANGE 
    
    Moments later, on the massive stone steps just outside the Exchange, a 
    shivering, POORLY-DRESSED MAN sees Scrooge walking toward him.  Scrooge pays 
    him no heed and walks past.  The man follows and clutches at Scrooge's 
    sleeve.  The two men descend the steps together.
    
    				POORLY-DRESSED MAN
    		Mister Scrooge, sir.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Who are you?
    
    				POORLY-DRESSED MAN
    		Samuel Wilson, sir.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Oh, yes.  You owe me a little matter of 
    		twenty-odd pounds, I believe. Well, if you 
    		want to pay it, come to my place of business.  
    		I don't conduct my affairs in the teeth of 
    		inclement weather.
    
    				POORLY-DRESSED MAN
    		I-I can't pay you, sir.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I'm not surprised.
    
    				POORLY-DRESSED MAN
    		Not unless you give me more time.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Did I ask you for more time to lend you 
    		the money?
    
    				POORLY-DRESSED MAN 
    		Oh, no, sir.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Then why should you ask for more time to 
    		pay it back?
    
    				POORLY-DRESSED MAN 
    		I can't take my wife to a debtors' prison.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Then leave her behind.  Why should she go 
    		to a debtors' prison anyway?  She didn't 
    		borrow the twenty pounds.  You did.  What 
    		has your wife got to do with it?  For that 
    		matter, what have I got to do with it?  Good 
    		afternoon.
    
    Scrooge tries to walk off but the man clutches at his sleeve.
    
    				POORLY-DRESSED MAN 
    		But, Mister Scrooge.  It's Christmas!
    
    Scrooge shakes the man off.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Christmas has even less to do with it, my 
    		dear sir, than your wife has or I have.  
    		You'd still owe me twenty pounds that 
    		you're not in the position to repay if it 
    		was the middle of a heat wave on August 
    		Bank holiday.  Good afternoon.
    
    Scrooge stalks away as the stunned man stands and stares at him.
    
    								DISSOLVE TO:
    
    EXT. A LONDON STREET
    
    Outside Scrooge's counting-house.  Cold, bleak, biting weather.  People in 
    the street go wheezing up and down, beating their hands upon their breasts, 
    and stamping their feet upon the pavement stones to warm them. The city 
    clocks strike three, but it's quite dark already. Candles flare in the 
    windows of the neighbouring offices, like ruddy smears upon the palpable 
    brown air. The fog comes pouring in at every chink and keyhole, and is so 
    dense that although the street is narrow, the houses opposite are mere 
    phantoms. The sign above the counting-house door reads: 
    
    			SCROOGE & MARLEY
    
    A tall man -- whom we will come to know as Scrooge's nephew, FRED -- rapidly 
    walks up to the door, opens it, and enters.
    
    INT. COUNTING-HOUSE
    
    Scrooge's clerk, BOB CRATCHIT, sits in a dismal little cell, a sort of tank, 
    copying letters. There's a very small fire, so small that it looks like 
    there's only one lump of coal.  The clerk puts on his white comforter, trying 
    -- and failing -- to warm himself at the candle. Fred appears, all in a glow; 
    his face ruddy and handsome; his eyes sparkle, and his breath smokes in the 
    cold.  He grins at Bob Cratchit who raises an eyebrow, surprised to see him.
    Fred crosses to the doorway of an adjacent office in which someone sits, 
    hunched over a desk, busily writing.
    
    				FRED 
    		A merry Christmas, uncle! God save you!
    
    The person at the desk spins around, glaring at the intruder.  It's Scrooge.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Bah!  Humbug!
    
    				FRED 
    		Christmas a humbug, uncle?  You don't mean 
    		that, I am sure.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I do.  Merry Christmas! What right have you 
    		to be merry? What reason have you to be 
    		merry? You're poor enough.
    
    				FRED 
    		Come, then. What right have you to be 
    		dismal? What reason have you to be morose? 
    		You're rich enough.
    
    Scrooge has no better answer ready.
    
    				SCROOGE
    		Bah! Humbug.
    
    				FRED 
    		Don't be cross, uncle. 
    
    Fred enters the office and crosses to a gothic window in the wall from which 
    is visible the ancient tower of a church.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		What else can I be when I live in such a 
    		world of fools as this Merry Christmas! Out 
    		upon merry Christmas. What's Christmas time 
    		to you but a time for paying bills without 
    		money; a time for finding yourself a year 
    		older, but not an hour richer; a time for 
    		balancing your books and having every item 
    		in 'em through a round dozen of months 
    		presented dead against you?  
    			(beat) 
    		If I could work my will, every idiot who 
    		goes about with "Merry Christmas" on his 
    		lips, should be boiled with his own pudding, 
    		and buried with a stake of holly through 
    		his heart. He should!
    
    				FRED 
    		Uncle!  
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Nephew! 
    			(beat) 
    		Keep Christmas in your own way, and let me 
    		keep it in mine.
    
    				FRED 
    		Keep it! But you don't keep it.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Let me leave it alone, then. Much good may 
    		it do you! Much good it has ever done you!
    
    				FRED 
    			(casually)
    		There are many things from which I might 
    		have derived good, by which I have not 
    		profited, I dare say. Christmas among the 
    		rest. But I am sure I have always thought 
    		of Christmas time, when it has come round 
    		-- apart from the veneration due to its 
    		sacred name and origin, if anything 
    		belonging to it can be apart from that -- 
    		as a good time: a kind, forgiving, 
    		charitable, pleasant time: the only time 
    		I know of, in the long calendar of the year, 
    		when men and women seem by one consent to 
    		open their shut-up hearts freely, and to 
    		think of people below them as if they really 
    		were fellow-passengers to the grave, and not 
    		another race of creatures bound on other 
    		journeys. And therefore, uncle, though it 
    		has never put a scrap of gold or silver in 
    		my pocket, I believe that it has done me 
    		good, and will do me good; and I say, God 
    		bless it! 
    
    Bob Cratchit, still in the tank, involuntarily applauds. Becoming immediately 
    sensible of the impropriety, he quickly pokes the fire, and extinguishes the 
    last frail spark. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(to Bob Cratchit) 
    		Let me hear another sound from you and 
    		you'll keep your Christmas by losing your 
    		job.  
    			(to his nephew) 
    		You're quite a powerful speaker, sir. I 
    		wonder you don't go into Parliament.
    
    				FRED 
    		Don't be angry, uncle. Come! Dine with 
    		us to-morrow. 
    			(a long pause) 
    		Will you come see us?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Oh, I'll see you all right...  I'll see 
    		you in hell.
    
    				FRED 
    			(astonished)
    		But why? Why?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Why did you get married?
    
    				FRED 
    			(confused) 
    		Because I fell in love.
    
    Scrooge looks at him as if falling in love was the only thing in the world 
    more ridiculous than a merry Christmas. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Because you fell in love! Good afternoon!
    
    				FRED 
    		Uncle, you never came to see me before that 
    		happened. Why give it as a reason for not 
    		coming now?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Good afternoon. 
    
    				FRED 
    		I want nothing from you; I ask nothing of 
    		you; why can't we be friends?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Good afternoon. 
    
    				FRED  
    		I am sorry, with all my heart, to find you 
    		so resolute. We have never had any quarrel, 
    		to which I have been a party. But I have made 
    		the trial in homage to Christmas, and I'll 
    		keep my Christmas humour to the last. So a 
    		Merry Christmas, uncle!
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Good afternoon. 
    
    				FRED  
    		And a Happy New Year!
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Good afternoon. 
    
    Fred leaves the room with a wry grin. On his way out the front door and 
    buttoning his coat, he exchanges greetings with Bob Cratchit.
    
    				FRED  
    		How is Mrs Cratchit and all the small, 
    		assorted Cratchits?
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		Very good, sir.
    
    				FRED 
    		All champing at the bit waiting for 
    		Christmas to begin, eh?
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		Oh, yes, sir. All very eager.
    
    				FRED 
    		And the little lame boy.  Which one is he?  
    		Tim?
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		Tim, sir.
    
    				FRED 
    		That's right. How is he?
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT  
    		We're in high hopes he's getting better, sir.
    
    				FRED 
    		Good.  A merry Christmas to you.
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		Same to you, sir, I'm sure.
    
    				FRED 
    		Thank you.
    
    Bob Cratchit watches Fred exit, then glances at Scrooge's office, surprised 
    to find Scrooge glaring at him.
    
    				SCROOGE  
    		And you!  Fifteen shillings a week, and a 
    		wife and family, talking about a merry 
    		Christmas. I'll retire to Bedlam.
    
    Bob Cratchit watches Scrooge shake his head and return to his desk.
    
    INT. COUNTING-HOUSE
    
    Not long after, TWO PORTLY GENTLEMEN, pleasant to behold, stand, with their 
    hats off, in Scrooge's office. They hold books and papers in their hands, 
    and bow to him. The 1st Gentleman glances at a list.
    
    				1ST GENTLEMAN
    		Scrooge and Marley's, I believe.  
    			(cheerfully) 
    		Have I the pleasure of addressing Mr 
    		Scrooge, or Mr Marley?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(melodramatically)
    		Mr Marley has been dead these seven years. 
    		He died seven years ago, this very night.
    
    The two gentlemen exchange glances while Scrooge grins malevolently at them. 
     The first gentleman hands his credentials to Scrooge.
    
    				1ST GENTLEMAN 
    			(to Scrooge)
    		We have no doubt his liberality is well 
    		represented by his surviving partner. 
    
    At the ominous word "liberality", Scrooge frowns, shakes his head, and hands 
    the credentials back.  The 2nd Gentleman takes pen in hand.
    
    				2ND GENTLEMAN 
    		At this festive season of the year, Mr 
    		Scrooge, it is more than usually desirable 
    		that we should make some slight provision 
    		for the Poor and destitute, who suffer greatly 
    		at the present time. Many thousands are in 
    		want of common necessities; hundreds of 
    		thousands are in want of common comforts, 
    		sir.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Are there no prisons?  
    
    The gentleman lays down his pen.
    
    				2ND GENTLEMAN 
    		Plenty of prisons. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		And the Union workhouses?  Are they still 
    		in operation?
    
    				1ST GENTLEMAN 
    		They are. Still. I wish I could say they 
    		were not.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		The Treadmill and the Poor Law are in full 
    		vigour, then?
    
    				1ST GENTLEMAN 
    		Both very busy, sir.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Oh! I was afraid, from what you said at 
    		first, that something had occurred to 
    		stop them in their useful course.  I'm 
    		very glad to hear it.
    
    				1ST GENTLEMAN 
    		Under the impression that they scarcely 
    		furnish Christian cheer of mind or body to 
    		the multitude, a few of us are attempting to 
    		raise a fund to buy the Poor some meat and 
    		drink, and means of warmth.  What shall I 
    		put you down for?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Nothing! 
    
    				1ST GENTLEMAN 
    		You wish to be anonymous?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I wish to be left alone.  Since you ask me 
    		what I wish, gentlemen, that is my answer. 
    		I don't make merry myself at Christmas and 
    		I can't afford to make idle people merry. 
    		I help to support the establishments I have 
    		mentioned: they cost enough: and those who 
    		are badly off must go there. 
    
    				1ST GENTLEMAN 
    		Many can't go there; and many would rather 
    		die.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		If they would rather die, they had better 
    		do it, and decrease the surplus population. 
    		Besides -- excuse me -- I don't know that.
    
    				1ST GENTLEMAN 
    		But you might know it. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		It's not my business. It's enough for a 
    		man to understand his own business, and not 
    		to interfere with other people's. Mine 
    		occupies me constantly. Good afternoon, 
    		gentlemen!
    
    Scrooge returns to his paperwork as the gentlemen exchange astonished looks.
    
    EXT. STREETS OF LONDON - NIGHT
    
    The fog and darkness have thickened.  People run about with flaring torches, 
    proffering their services to go before horses in carriages, and conduct them 
    on their way. At the corner, some labourers repair gas-pipes, and have 
    lighted a great fire in an iron basket, round which a party of ragged men 
    and boys gather: warming their hands and winking their eyes before the blaze 
    in rapture. The water-plug being left in solitude, its overflowings have 
    sullenly congealed, and turned into misanthropic ice. The brightness of the 
    shops where holly sprigs and berries crackle in the lamp-heat of the windows, 
    make pale faces ruddy as they pass. A lean woman emerges from the butchers' 
    with a package of meat. 
    
    EXT. COUNTING-HOUSE
    
    A small BOY nervously approaches Scrooge's window to regale him with a 
    Christmas carol: but at the first sound of "God bless you, merry gentleman! 
    May nothing you dismay!" Scrooge seizes a ruler with such energy of action 
    that the singer flees in terror. 
    
    INT. COUNTING-HOUSE
    
    The moment the boy has fled, Scrooge's threatening countenance relaxes and 
    he grins, rather pleased with himself.
    
    Scrooge glances at the church tower, nearly invisible in the fog, as its 
    clock STRIKES the hour, with tremulous vibrations afterwards as if its teeth 
    were chattering in its frozen head.  Time to shut up the counting-house.  
    With an ill-will, Scrooge dismounts from his stool, and nods to Bob Cratchit, 
    who instantly snuffs his candle out, and puts on his hat. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		You'll want all day tomorrow, I suppose? 
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		If quite convenient, Sir.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		It's not convenient, and it's not fair. 
    		If I was to stop half-a-crown for it, 
    		you'd think yourself ill-used, I'll be 
    		bound? 
    
    Bob Cratchit smiles faintly. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		And yet, you don't think me ill-used, 
    		when I pay a day's wages for no work.
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		It's only once a year, Mr Scrooge. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		A poor excuse for picking a man's pocket 
    		every twenty-fifth of December,
    
    Scrooge buttons his great-coat to the chin.
    
    				SCROOGE
    		But I suppose you must have the whole day. 
    		Be here all the earlier next morning! 
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		I will.  I promise.
    
    Scrooge walks out into the street with a growl. Bob Cratchit closes the 
    office in a twinkling.
    
    EXT. LONDON STREET
    
    A coatless, shivering Bob Cratchit locks the front door and rushes off with 
    the long ends of his white comforter dangling below his waist.
    
    INT. TAVERN 
    
    Scrooge eats a melancholy dinner in a melancholy tavern; the newspapers he 
    has just read lie in a stack on his table; he studies his banker's-book.
    
    EXT. SCROOGE'S BUILDING
    
    A dark and threatening building. Nobody lives in it but Scrooge, the other 
    rooms are all let out as offices. The yard is so dark that Scrooge gropes 
    with his hands through the fog and frost to the black old doorway of the 
    house on which is a fairly large knocker. Scrooge puts his key in the lock 
    of the door and glances at the knocker.  Without its undergoing any 
    intermediate process of change, the knocker is no longer a knocker, but 
    Marley's face. Scrooge gasps.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(whispers)
    		Marley?
    
    Marley's face. Not in impenetrable shadow as the other objects in the yard 
    are, but with a dismal light about it, like a bad lobster in a dark cellar. 
    Not angry or ferocious, the face looks at Scrooge as Marley used to look: 
    with ghostly spectacles turned up upon its ghostly forehead; the hair 
    curiously stirred, as if by breath or hot-air;  eyes wide open but perfectly 
    motionless. That, and its livid colour, make it horrible; but its horror 
    seems to be in spite of the face and beyond its control, rather than a part 
    of its own expression. As Scrooge lets go of the key and stares fixedly at 
    this phenomenon, it becomes a knocker again. Startled, Scrooge puts his hand 
    upon the key, turns it sturdily, walks in, and lights his candle. 
    
    INT. ENTRY HALL
    
    Scrooge pauses to look cautiously behind the door, as if he half expects to 
    see Marley's pigtail sticking out into the hall. But there's nothing on the 
    back of the door, except the screws and nuts that hold the knocker on.  
    Scrooge closes the door with a bang.  The sound echoes through the house like 
    thunder. He fastens the door, walks across the hall, and up the stairs, 
    slowly, trimming his candle as he goes. 
    
    INT.  THE STAIRS
    
    A grand old flight of stairs, very wide, very dark.  Scrooge peers up into 
    the darkness and, for a moment, he thinks he sees a something that looks like 
    a hearse going on before him in the gloom. He pauses, blinks, shakes his 
    head, then continues, muttering to himself.
    
    INT. SCROOGE'S ROOMS - MONTAGE
    
    A suspicious, slightly unnerved Scrooge walks through his gloomy suite of 
    rooms -- sitting-room,  lumber-room, bed-room -- to be sure that everything's 
    all right.  In the sitting-room, he finds nobody under the table, nobody 
    under the sofa; a small fire in the grate; spoon and basin ready; and a 
    little saucepan of gruel (Scrooge has a cold in his head) upon the hob. 
    Lumber-room as usual. Old fire-guard, old shoes, two fish-baskets, washing-
    stand on three legs, and a poker. 
    
    Bed-room as usual.  Nobody under the bed; nobody in the closet.  Suddenly, he 
    sees a ghostly white shape in the darkness on the opposite side of the room. 
     Scrooge tenses up for a moment until he realizes it's only his 
    dressing-gown, hung up in a suspicious attitude against the wall.
    
    Quite satisfied, he closes his door, and locks himself in; in fact, he 
    double-locks himself in, not his custom. Secured against surprise, he returns 
    to the bed-room, takes off his cravat and starts to put on his dressing-gown, 
    slippers, and night-cap.
    
    INT. SCROOGE'S SITTING-ROOM
    
    Having changed clothes, Scrooge sits down before the fire to take his gruel. 
    
    It's a very low fire and Scrooge sits close to it. The fireplace is an old 
    one, built by some Dutch merchant long ago, and paved all round with quaint 
    Dutch tiles, designed to illustrate the Scriptures. Cains and Abels, 
    Pharaoh's daughters, Queens of Sheba, Angelic messengers descending through 
    the air on clouds like feather-beds, Abrahams, Belshazzars, Apostles putting 
    off to sea in butter-boats, hundreds of figures.  Scrooge takes a mouthful 
    of gruel and glances at the fireplace.  FLASH CUT of every tile adorned with 
    Marley's face as it was on the door-knocker.  Scrooge blinks -- and sees that 
    the tiles have returned to normal.
    
    Scrooge rises and paces the room, feeling unsettled. After several turns, and 
    more than a few nervous glances at the fireplace, he sits down again. As he 
    throws his head back in the chair, his glance happens to rest upon a bell, a 
    disused bell, that hangs in the room. As he looks, the bell begins to swing. 
    It swings so softly at the outset that it scarcely makes a sound; but soon it 
    rings out loudly, and for the next twenty seconds, so does every bell in the 
    house. Throughout, an uneasy look slowly crosses Scrooge's face.
    
    All at once, the bells cease. Scrooge relaxes, but only for a moment: a 
    clanking noise comes from deep down below, as if some person were dragging a 
    heavy chain over the casks in the wine-merchant's cellar. The sound of a 
    downstairs door flying open with a booming sound, and then the clanking 
    noise much louder, on the floors below; then coming up the stairs; then 
    coming straight towards his door. Scrooge starts talking to himself.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		It's humbug still! I won't believe it.
    
    The colour leaves Scrooge's face though, when, without a pause, the source of 
    the noise comes on through the heavy door, and passes into the room before 
    Scrooge's very eyes. Upon its coming in, the dying flame leaps up in the 
    fire-place and falls again. 
    
    The same face: the very same. JACOB MARLEY'S GHOST in his pigtail, usual 
    waistcoat, tights, and boots; the tassels on the latter bristling, like his 
    pigtail, and his coat-skirts, and the hair upon his head. A wrapper, a folded 
    kerchief is bound about Marley's head and chin.  A long chain is clasped 
    about his middle, wound about him like a tail; and made of cash-boxes, keys, 
    padlocks, ledgers, deeds, and heavy purses wrought in steel. Marley's body 
    is transparent so that Scrooge, observing him closely, can look through his 
    waistcoat and see the two buttons on his coat behind. Scrooge feels the need 
    to crack a joke to keep down his terror.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(softly)
    		I'd often heard it said that you had no 
    		heart, Marley, but I never believed it 
    		until now. 
    
    Scrooge stares into the ghost's death-cold eyes and reverts to his cold and 
    caustic self.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		How now! What do you want with me?
    
    				MARLEY
    		Much!
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Who are you?
    
    				MARLEY
    		Ask me who I was.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Who were you then?
    
    				MARLEY 
    		In life I was your partner, Jacob Marley.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(doubtfully)
    		Can you -- can you sit down?
    
    				MARLEY 
    		I can.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Do it, then.
    
    Marley sits down on the opposite side of the fireplace, as if he were quite 
    used to it. Scrooge stares at the ghost's fixed, glazed eyes as it sits 
    perfectly motionless though its hair, and skirts, and tassels, still quiver 
    as if by the hot vapour from an oven. 
    
    				MARLEY 
    		You don't believe in me. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I don't. 
    
    				MARLEY 
    		What evidence would you have of my reality 
    		beyond that of your senses? 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I don't know. 
    
    				MARLEY 
    		Why do you doubt your senses?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Because a little thing affects them. A 
    		slight disorder of the stomach makes them 
    		cheat. You may be an undigested bit of beef, 
    		a blot of mustard, a crumb of cheese, a 
    		fragment of an underdone potato. There's 
    		more of gravy than of grave about you, 
    		whatever you are!  You see this toothpick?
    
    Scrooge holds up a toothpick.  The ghost's eyes do not move.
    
    				MARLEY 
    		I do. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		You are not looking at it. 
    
    				MARLEY 
    		But I see it, notwithstanding.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Well! I have but to swallow this, and be for 
    		the rest of my days persecuted by a legion 
    		of goblins, all of my own creation. Humbug, 
    		I tell you; humbug!
    
    At this, the spirit raises a frightful cry, and shakes its chain with such a 
    dismal and appalling noise, that Scrooge holds on tight to his chair, to save 
    himself from falling in a swoon.  Marley starts taking off the bandage round 
    its head, as if it were too warm to wear in-doors.  When Marley's lower jaw 
    drops down to his breast, Scrooge falls on his knees, and clasps his hands 
    before his face. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Mercy!  Dreadful apparition, why do you 
    		trouble me?
    
    				MARLEY 
    		Man of the worldly mind!  Do you believe 
    		in me or not?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I do. I must. But why do spirits walk the 
    		earth, and why do they come to me?
    
    				MARLEY 
    		It is required of every man that the spirit 
    		within him should walk abroad among his 
    		fellow-men, and travel far and wide; and if 
    		that spirit goes not go forth in life, it is 
    		condemned to do so after death. It is 
    		doomed to wander through the world -- oh, 
    		woe is me! -- and witness what it cannot 
    		share, but might have shared on earth, and 
    		turned to happiness!
    
    Again Marley raises a cry, and shakes his chain, and wrings his shadowy hands. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		You are fettered. Tell me why?
    
    				MARLEY 
    		I wear the chain I forged in life. I made 
    		it link by link, and yard by yard; I girded 
    		it on of my own free will, and of my own 
    		free will I wore it. Is its pattern strange 
    		to you?
    
    Scrooge trembles more and more. 
    
    				MARLEY 
    		Or would you know the weight and length of 
    		the strong coil you bear yourself? It was 
    		full as heavy and as long as this, seven 
    		Christmas Eves ago. You have laboured on 
    		it, since. It is a ponderous chain! 
    
    Scrooge glances about him on the floor, in the expectation of finding himself 
    surrounded by some fifty or sixty fathoms of iron cable: but he sees nothing. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Jacob. Old Jacob Marley, tell me more. 
    		Speak comfort to me, Jacob. 
    
    				MARLEY 
    		I have none to give.  It comes from other 
    		regions, Ebenezer Scrooge, and is conveyed 
    		by other ministers, to other kinds of men. 
    		Nor can I tell you what I would. A very 
    		little more, is all permitted to me. I 
    		cannot rest, I cannot stay, I cannot 
    		linger anywhere. My spirit never walked 
    		beyond our counting-house -- mark me! -- 
    		in life my spirit never roved beyond the 
    		narrow limits of our money-changing hole; 
    		and weary journeys lie before me! 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		You must have been very slow about it, 
    		Jacob. 
    
    				MARLEY 
    		Slow! 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Seven years dead. And travelling all the 
    		time?
    
    				MARLEY 
    		The whole time.  No rest, no peace. 
    		Incessant torture of remorse.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		You travel fast?  
    
    				MARLEY 
    		On the wings of the wind. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		You might have got over a great quantity 
    		of ground in seven years. 
    
    Marley screams another cry, and clanks his chain hideously. 
    
    				MARLEY 
    		Oh! captive, bound, and double-ironed!  
    		Not to know, that ages of incessant 
    		labour by immortal creatures, for this 
    		earth must pass into eternity before the 
    		good of which it is susceptible is all 
    		developed. Not to know that any Christian 
    		spirit working kindly in its little sphere, 
    		whatever it may be, will find its mortal 
    		life too short for its vast means of 
    		usefulness. Not to know that no space of 
    		regret can make amends for one life's 
    		opportunities misused! Yet such was I! 
    		Oh! such was I!
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		But you were always a good man of business, 
    		Jacob. 
    
    				MARLEY 
    		Business! Mankind was my business. The 
    		common welfare was my business; charity, 
    		mercy, forbearance, and benevolence, were, 
    		all, my business. The dealings of my trade 
    		were but a drop of water in the comprehensive 
    		ocean of my business!
    
    Marley holds up his chain at arm's length, as if that were the cause of all 
    his unavailing grief, and flings it heavily to the floor again. 
    
    				MARLEY  
    		At this time of the year, I suffer most. 
    		Why did I walk through crowds of 
    		fellow-beings with my eyes turned down, 
    		and never raise them to that blessed Star 
    		which led the Wise Men to a poor abode? 
    		Were there no poor homes to which its light 
    		would have conducted me!
    
    Scrooge shivers. 
    
    				MARLEY 
    		Hear me! My time is nearly gone.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I will.  But don't be hard upon me! Don't 
    		be flowery, Jacob! 
    
    				MARLEY 
    		How it is that I appear before you in a 
    		shape that you can see, I may not tell. 
    		I have sat invisible beside you many and 
    		many a day.
    
    Scrooge shivers at this, and wipes the perspiration from his brow. 
    
    				MARLEY 
    		That is no light part of my penance.  I am 
    		here to-night to warn you, that you have yet 
    		a chance and hope of escaping my fate. A 
    		chance and hope of my procuring, Ebenezer.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		You were always a good friend to me.  
    		Thank'ee!
    
    				MARLEY 
    		You will be haunted ... by Three Spirits.
    
    Scrooge's jaw drops almost as low as Marley's had done. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Is that the chance and hope you mentioned, 
    		Jacob?
    
    				MARLEY 
    		It is.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I -- I think I'd rather not. 
    
    				MARLEY 
    		Without their visits, you cannot hope to 
    		shun the path I tread. Expect the first 
    		to-morrow, when the bell tolls One.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Couldn't I take 'em all at once, and have 
    		it over, Jacob?  
    
    				MARLEY 
    		Expect the second on the next night at the 
    		same hour. The third upon the next night 
    		when the last stroke of Twelve has ceased 
    		to vibrate. Look to see me no more; and look 
    		that, for your own sake, you remember what 
    		has passed between us.
    
    Scrooge ventures to raise his eyes again, and finds his supernatural visitor 
    confronting him in an erect attitude, with its chain wound over and about its 
    arm.  Marley takes his wrapper and wraps it round its head, as before. 
    Scrooge winces at the clicking sound Marley's teeth make, when his jaws are 
    brought together by the bandage.  Marley walks backward from him; and with 
    every step, the nearby window raises itself a little, so that when the ghost 
    reaches it, it's wide open. He beckons Scrooge to approach, which he does. 
    When they get within two paces of each other, Marley holds up his hand, 
    warning him to come no nearer. Scrooge stops, not so much in obedience, as in 
    surprise and fear: for on the raising of the hand, he becomes sensible of 
    confused noises in the air; incoherent sounds of lamentation and regret; 
    wailings inexpressibly sorrowful and self-accusatory. Marley, after listening 
    for a moment, joins in the mournful dirge; and floats out the window into the 
    bleak, dark night.  Scrooge follows to the window: desperate in his 
    curiosity. He looks out. 
    
    EXT. SCROOGE'S BUILDING
    
    The foggy air is filled with phantoms, wandering hither and thither in 
    restless haste, and moaning as they go. Every one of them wears chains like 
    Marley's; some few (they might be guilty governments) are linked together; 
    none are free. Many had been personally known to Scrooge in their lives. One 
    old ghost, in a white waistcoat, with a monstrous iron safe attached to its 
    ankle, cries piteously at being unable to assist a WRETCHED WOMAN with an 
    infant, whom it sees below, upon a neighboring door-step. The misery with 
    them all is, clearly, that they sought to interfere, for good, in human 
    matters, and have lost the power for ever. Whether these creatures fade into 
    the mist, or the mist enshrouds them, is unclear. But they and their spirit 
    voices fade together; and the night becomes as it had been when Scrooge 
    walked home. 
    
    INT. SCROOGE'S SITTING-ROOM
    
    Scrooge closes the window, and examines the door by which the Ghost had 
    entered. It's still double-locked, as he had locked it with his own hands -- 
    the bolts are undisturbed. He tries to say "Humbug!" but stops at the first 
    syllable.  
    
    INT. SCROOGE'S BED-ROOM
    
    Scrooge closes his bed-room door and crosses to his bed.  Without undressing, 
    he gets in, and falls asleep instantly. The light from the fire in the 
    sitting-room is visible under the closed bed-room door.
    
    								DISSOLVE TO:
    
    INT. SCROOGE'S BED-ROOM
    
    Scrooge awakes in darkness, some time later.  The fire has gone out in the 
    sitting-room.  As the chimes of a neighbouring church strike twelve, Scrooge 
    counts with his fingers.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Twelve? It was past two when I went to bed. 
    
    Scrooge scrambles out of bed, and gropes his way to the window. He rubs the 
    frost off with the sleeve of his dressing-gown but all he can make out is 
    that it's very foggy and very quiet.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Hmmph! Clock must be wrong. Icicle must 
    		have got into the works. 
    
    Scrooge lights a candle and sits on the edge of his bed, looking at his 
    bedside alarm clock.  It reads twelve.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Twelve! Why, it isn't possible. I can't 
    		have slept through a whole day and far 
    		into another night.
    
    He picks up the clock and checks it, then seems to remember something.
    
    				NARRATOR 
    			(voice over)
    		Now, of course, the Ghost had warned Mr 
    		Scrooge that a spirit would visit him 
    		when the bell tolled one ...
    
    Scrooge appears to make a decision of some kind and begins to fiddle with his 
    clock.
    
    				NARRATOR 
    			(voice over)
    		... So he resolved to lie awake until the 
    		hour was past; and, considering that he 
    		could no more go to sleep than go to Heaven, 
    		this was perhaps the wisest decision he 
    		could make. Naturally, he didn't want to 
    		be caught dozing off, so he made sure to 
    		set the alarm on his clock to go off 
    		precisely at one.
    
    Scrooge sets the alarm, draws open all the bed-curtains so he may keep a 
    sharp look-out on the room, and sits up in bed -- waiting for his visitor.
    
    								DISSOLVE TO:
    
    INT. SCROOGE'S BED-ROOM
    
    About an hour later.  Scrooge, warily sitting up in bed, watches the clock 
    tick to one.  The tinny alarm bell goes off.  Scrooge looks around the room.  
    Nothing.
    
    				SCROOGE  
    		Bah!
    
    He sighs -- whether in relief or disappointment or embarrassment, it's hard 
    to tell -- blows out the candle, glances at the door where, the fire having 
    gone out, no light shines through from the sitting-room.  Scrooge draws all 
    the bed-curtains shut, curls up under the covers, and with a peaceful, 
    satisfied look on his face, shuts his eyes.
    
    A long pause.
    
    The church bell sounds with a deep, dull, hollow, melancholy ONE. Scrooge's 
    eyes pop open and a wave of dread passes over his face.  A wickedly bright 
    light flashes up in the room, and the curtains of Scrooge's bed are instantly 
    drawn aside.  Scrooge, starting up into a half-recumbent attitude, finds 
    himself face to face with the unearthly visitor who drew them:
    
    It's a weird, impressive figure -- like a child: yet not so like a child as 
    like an old man, viewed through some supernatural medium, which gives him the 
    appearance of having receded from the view, and being diminished to a child's 
    proportions. Its hair, which hangs about its neck and down its back, is white 
    as if with age; and yet the face has not a wrinkle in it, and the tenderest 
    bloom is on the skin. The arms are very long and muscular; the hands the 
    same, as if its hold were of uncommon strength. Its legs and feet, most 
    delicately formed, are, like those upper members, bare. It wears a tunic of 
    the purest white. Round its waist is bound a lustrous belt, with a beautiful 
    sheen. It holds a branch of fresh green holly in its hand; and, in singular 
    contradiction of that wintry emblem, has its dress trimmed with summer 
    flowers. From the crown of its head there springs a bright clear jet of 
    light, by which all this is visible; and which is doubtless why it uses, in 
    its duller moments, a great extinguisher for a cap, which it now holds under 
    its arm. 
    
    Its belt sparkles and glitters now in one part and now in another.  And it is 
    continuously morphing: what is light one instant, at another time is dark, so 
    the figure itself fluctuates in its distinctness -- being now a thing with 
    one arm, now with one leg, now with twenty legs, now a pair of legs without a 
    head, now a head without a body -- of which dissolving parts, no outline is 
    visible in the dense gloom wherein they melt away and then re-form, distinct 
    and clear as ever. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Are you the Spirit, sir, whose coming was 
    		foretold to me?  
    
    				THE GHOST
    		I am!
    
    The voice is soft and gentle. Singularly low, as if instead of being so close 
    beside Scrooge, it's at a distance. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Who, and what are you? 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
    		I am the Ghost of Christmas Past.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Long past?  
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST
    		No. Your past.
    
    Scrooge winces and blinks at the light coming from the Ghost's crown.
    
    				SCROOGE  
    		I wonder if you might, er, put a hat on.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		What!  Would you so soon put out, with 
    		worldly hands, the light I give? Is it not 
    		enough that you are one of those whose 
    		passions made this cap, and force me through 
    		whole trains of years to wear it low upon 
    		my brow!
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I didn't mean to offend. Er, what business 
    		brings you here? 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		Your welfare! 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Well, I'm much obliged, but I wonder if a 
    		good night's sleep wouldn't be more conducive 
    		to that end. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		Your reclamation, then. Take heed!
    
    The Ghost puts out its strong hand as it speaks, and clasps him gently by the 
    arm. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		Rise! and walk with me!
    
    Scrooge rises, but finding that the Ghost leads him toward the window, clasps 
    his robe in supplication. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		It's the middle of the night;  it's below 
    		freezing;  I'm wearing slippers, a 
    		dressing-gown, and a nightcap;  I'm mortal.  
    		And I'm liable to fall.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST  
    		Bear but a touch of my hand there ...
    			
    The Ghost points to its heart.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST  
    		... and you shall be upheld in more than 
    		this!
    
    Scrooge touches the Ghost's heart and they pass through the wall.
    
    EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY
    
    Scrooge and the Ghost stand on an open, sunlit country road, with fields on 
    either hand.  It's a clear, cold, winter day, with snow upon the ground. 
    Scrooge looks about and clasps his hands together.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Good Heaven! I was bred in this place. I 
    		was a boy here!
    
    The Ghost gazes upon him mildly.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST  
    		Your lip is trembling.  And what is that 
    		upon your cheek?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(an unusual catching in his voice) 
    		It's a pimple. 
    			(beat) 
    		I beg you, Spirit, lead me where you would. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST  
    		You recollect the way?  
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Remember it! I could walk it blindfold.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST  
    		Strange to have forgotten it for so many 
    		years! Let us go on.
    
    They walk along the road; Scrooge points out every gate, and post, and tree;  
    A little market-town appears in the distance, with a bridge, a church, and a 
    winding river. Some shaggy ponies, with boys upon their backs, trot down the 
    road towards Scrooge and the Ghost.  The boys call to other boys in country 
    gigs and carts, driven by farmers. All are in great spirits, and shout to 
    each other. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    			(to Scrooge)
    		These are but shadows of the things that 
    		have been.  They have no consciousness of 
    		us.
    
    The jocund travellers approach; and as they pass by, Scrooge's cold eye 
    glistens. He hears them wish each other Merry Christmas, as they part at 
    cross-roads and bye-ways, for their several homes.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		The school is not quite deserted.  A 
    		solitary child, neglected by his friends, 
    		is left there still.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(grim again)
    		I know it. 
    
    EXT.  SCHOOLHOUSE
    
    Scrooge and the Ghost leave the high-road and approach a mansion of dull red 
    brick, with a little weathercock-surmounted cupola, on the roof, and a bell 
    hanging in it. It's a large house, but one of broken fortunes; for the 
    spacious offices are little used, their walls are damp and mossy, their 
    windows broken, and their gates decayed. Fowls cluck and strut in the 
    stables; and the coach-houses and sheds are over-run with grass. The Ghost 
    and Scrooge cross to a door at the back of the house. It opens before them, 
    and discloses:
    
    INT. SCHOOLROOM
    
    A long, bare, melancholy room, made barer still by lines of plain deal forms 
    and desks. At one of these, a lonely boy reads near a feeble fire; Scrooge 
    sits down upon a form, and weeps to see his poor forgotten self as he used to 
    be. The Ghost joins him. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Poor boy!
    
    Scrooge dries his eyes with his cuff, then mutters, puts his hand in his 
    pocket, and looks about him.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I wish ... but it's too late now.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		What is the matter?  
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Nothing. Nothing. There was a boy singing a 
    		Christmas carol at my window last night. I 
    		should like to have given him something: 
    		that's all.
    
    The Ghost smiles thoughtfully, and waves its hand.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		Let us see another Christmas!
    
    Scrooge's younger self suddenly morphs into an older boy, and the room 
    becomes a little darker and more dirty. The panels shrink, the windows crack; 
    fragments of plaster fall out of the ceiling; But his former self is still 
    alone: all the other boys have gone home again for the holidays. 
    
    Young Scrooge is not reading now, but walking up and down despairingly. 
    Scrooge looks at the Ghost, and with a mournful shaking of his head, glances 
    anxiously towards the door. It opens; and a little girl, much younger than 
    the boy, stands at the threshold, looking in. It's Scrooge's sister FAN. The 
    elder Scrooge is amazed to see her.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(whispers)
    		Fan...
    
    				FAN
    		Ebenezer.
    
    Fan steps toward him, arms outstretched as if to give him a hug and he 
    responds.  But as she darts forward, her body passes through his -- for she 
    is but a shadow -- and puts her arms about the neck of the younger Scrooge, 
    and kisses him.  Though disappointed, the elder Scrooge turns to watch the 
    youngsters embrace.
    
    				FAN 
    		Dear, dear brother.  I have come to bring 
    		you home, dear brother!
    
    She claps her tiny hands, and bends down to laugh. 
    
    				FAN 
    			(sings)
    		To bring you home, home, home!
    
    				YOUNG SCROOGE 
    			(stunned)
    		Home, little Fan? 
    
    				FAN 
    		Yes! Home, for good and all. Home, for ever 
    		and ever. Father is so much kinder than he 
    		used to be, that home's like Heaven! 
    
    				YOUNG SCROOGE 
    		For you, perhaps.  But not for me.  He 
    		doesn't know me or even what I look like.  
    		Same as I hardly know you, now that you're 
    		quite a woman.
    
    				FAN 
    		He spoke so gently to me one dear night when 
    		I was going to bed, that I was not afraid to 
    		ask him once more if you might come home; and 
    		he said Yes, you should; and sent me in a coach 
    		to bring you. And you're to be a man! And are 
    		never to come back here; but first, we're to be 
    		together all the Christmas long, and have the 
    		merriest time in all the world.
    
    				YOUNG SCROOGE 
    		You are quite a woman, little Fan!  
    
    She claps her hands and laughs, and tries to touch his head; but being too 
    little, laughs again, and stands on tiptoe to embrace him. Then she begins to 
    drag him, in her childish eagerness, towards the door; and he, nothing loth 
    to go, accompanies her. 
    
    EXT. SCHOOLHOUSE
    
    Young Scrooge's trunk is tied on to the top of a coach, not long after. Young 
    Scrooge and Fan bid an old schoolmaster good-bye, get in, and drive gaily 
    down the country road: the quick wheels dash the hoar-frost and snow from off 
    the dark leaves of the evergreens like spray. 
    
    EXT. COUNTRY ROAD
    
    The Elder Scrooge and the Ghost stand at the road-side and watch the coach go 
    by, its two passengers laughing and talking.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		Always a delicate creature, whom a breath 
    		might have withered.  But she had a large 
    		heart!
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		So she had. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		She died a woman.  And had, as I think, 
    		children. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		One child.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		True.  Your nephew!
    
    Scrooge seems uneasy in his mind.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(briefly)
    		Yes.
    
    The Ghost casually peers over Scrooge shoulder and when Scrooge turns 'round 
    to follow his gaze, he is startled to see:
    
    EXT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
    
    A busy thoroughfare of a city, where shadowy pedestrians pass and shadowy 
    carts and coaches battle for the way. The dressing of the shops shows that 
    here too it's Christmas time again; but it's evening, and the streets are 
    lighted up. Scrooge and the Ghost stand near a warehouse door to which the 
    Ghost points. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		Know it?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Know it!  I apprenticed here!
    
    The Ghost, using a half dozen arms that fade in and out of view, gestures 
    "After you" and Scrooge enters. 
    
    INT. WAREHOUSE
    
    At sight of an old GENTLEMEN in a Welch wig, sitting behind such a high desk, 
    that if he were two inches taller he would knock his head against the 
    ceiling, Scrooge lets out a gasp and turns to the Ghost behind him. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Why, it's old Fezziwig! Bless his heart; 
    		it's Fezziwig alive again! 
    
    Old Fezziwig lays down his pen, and looks up at the clock, which points to 
    the hour of seven. He rubs his hands; adjusts his capacious waistcoat; 
    laughs, and calls out in a comfortable, oily, rich, fat, jovial voice. 
    
    				FEZZIWIG
    		Yo ho, there! Ebenezer! Dick!
    
    Immediately, EBENEZER -- Scrooge's younger self, now a grown man -- comes 
    briskly in, accompanied by his fellow-'prentice, DICK. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(to the Ghost)
    		Dick Wilkins, to be sure!  Bless me, yes. 
    		There he is. He was very much attached to me, 
    		was Dick. Poor Dick! Dear, dear!
    
    				FEZZIWIG
    		Yo ho, my boys! No more work to-night. 
    		Christmas Eve, Dick. Christmas, Ebenezer! 
    		Let's have the shutters up... 
    			(claps his hands, sharply) 
    		... before a man can say, Jack Robinson!
    
    Dick and Ebenezer charge into the street with the shutters -- one, two, three 
    -- have them up in their places -- four, five, six -- bar 'em and pin 'em -- 
    seven, eight, nine -- and come back before the count of twelve, panting like 
    race-horses. Fezziwig skips down from the high desk, with wonderful agility.
    
    				FEZZIWIG
    		Hilli-ho! Clear away, my lads, and let's 
    		have lots of room here! Hilli-ho, Dick! 
    		Chirrup, Ebenezer!
    
    FEZZIWIG CHRISTMAS MONTAGE
    
    In a minute, Dick and Ebenezer have every movable packed off, the floor swept 
    and watered, the lamps trimmed, fuel heaped on the fire; and the warehouse is 
    as snug, and warm, and dry, and bright a ball-room. 
    
    A fiddler with a music-book enters, goes up to the lofty desk, tunes his 
    instrument and starts to play.  MRS. FEZZIWIG, one vast substantial smile, 
    enters. Three MISS FEZZIWIGS, beaming and lovable, enter. Six young followers 
    whose hearts they broke, enter. All the young men and women employed in the 
    business enter, one after another; some shyly, some boldly, some gracefully, 
    some awkwardly, some pushing, some pulling -- twenty couple at once; hands 
    half round and back again the other way; down the middle and up again; round 
    and round in various stages of affectionate grouping; as the dance ends, old 
    Fezziwig, clapping his hands, crying out, "Well done!"  The fiddler buries his
     face in a pot of porter and then pops up again, refreshed, to keep playing. 
    
    Throughout, Scrooge and the Ghost watch.  Or, rather, the Ghost watches and 
    Scrooge lives and re-lives every moment.  He points out the guests to the 
    Ghost and talks about them animatedly, though we can't hear him over all the 
    noise.  Eventually, he ditches the Ghost like a bad blind date and follows 
    his younger self 'round the room, listening in on conversations and laughing 
    along with various jokes. 
    
    More dancing.  Also eating: cake, negus, a great piece of Cold Roast, a great 
    piece of Cold Boiled, mince-pies, and plenty of beer. The fiddler strikes up 
    "Sir Roger de Coverley." Old Fezziwig dances with Mrs. Fezziwig -- an 
    impressive display: advance and retire, hold hands with your partner, bow and 
    curtsey; corkscrew; thread-the-needle, and back again to your place.  Young 
    Ebenezer, too, dances up a storm as his elder self looks on in amazement.
    
    The clock strikes eleven as the party winds down. Mr and Mrs Fezziwig take 
    their stations, one on either side of the door, and shake hands with every 
    person individually as he or she goes out, wishes him or her a Merry 
    Christmas. When everyone has gone but the two 'prentices, they do the same to 
    them;  Suddenly, all is very quiet as the young men are left to clean up. 
    
    Scrooge remembers the Ghost, and becomes conscious that it's looking full 
    upon him, while the light upon its head burns very clear. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		A small matter to make these silly folks so 
    		full of gratitude.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Small!  
    
    The Spirit signs to him to listen to the two apprentices.  We overhear a 
    snatch of the conversation as they tidy the room.
    
    				DICK
    		What a sweet old man is Mr Fezziwig!
    
    				EBENEZER
    		The sweetest!  Didja see him dancin' with 
    		the Missus -- and the look on his face?  
    
    				DICK
    		Oh, yes!
    
    				EBENEZER  
    		He was in Heaven -- and fully deserved to 
    		be.
    
    				DICK
    		And where the devil did he find that 
    		fiddler?
    
    				EBENEZER  
    		Oh, wasn't he marvelous? Nothing's too good 
    		for Fezziwig. I'd say this year's party was 
    		finer than the last -- if such a thing is 
    		possible.
    
    As the boys head into another room, the Ghost turns to Scrooge.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		Fezziwig spent but a few pounds of your 
    		mortal money: three or four perhaps. Is that 
    		so much that he deserves this praise?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		It isn't that. It isn't that, Spirit. He 
    		has the power to render us happy or unhappy; 
    		to make our service light or burdensome; a 
    		pleasure or a toil. Say that his power lies 
    		in words and looks; in things so slight and 
    		insignificant that it is impossible to add 
    		and count 'em up: what then? The happiness 
    		he gives, is quite as great as if it cost 
    		a fortune.
    
    The Ghost raises an eyebrow at this, and Scrooge stops. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		What is the matter? 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Nothing particular. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		Something, I think?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		No. No. I should like to be able to say a 
    		word or two to my clerk just now. That's all.
    
    Suddenly, the room darkens as young Ebenezer re-enters and turns down the 
    lamps. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		My time grows short.
    
    The room continues to darken until the scene fades to black.
    
    EXT. GRAVEYARD - DAY
    
    The black hole of a freshly dug grave -- on a frosty green cemetery lawn 
    under a sunny blue sky.  Nearby is Ebenezer, older now, a man in the prime of 
    life, but without the harsh and rigid lines of later years: merely a few 
    signs of care and avarice. An eager, greedy, restless motion afflicts his 
    eye. He sits on a bench under a shady tree watching a fair young girl in a 
    mourning-dress placing flowers by a tombstone -- her tears sparkle in the 
    light that shines out of the Ghost of Christmas Past, who stands on the 
    opposite side of the 'stone. An astonished Scrooge stands beside the Ghost, 
    staring at her, his face just inches from hers.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(whispers)
    		Belle ...
    
    He reaches out to touch her, but she abruptly turns and crosses to his 
    younger self, going from sunshine to shade.  BELLE joins Ebenezer on the 
    bench and takes up what appears to be an ongoing conversation.
    
    				BELLE
    		It matters little, to you, very little. 
    		Another idol has displaced me; and if it 
    		can cheer and comfort you in time to come, 
    		as I would have tried to do, I have no 
    		just cause to grieve.
    
    				EBENEZER 
    		What Idol has displaced you? 
    
    				BELLE 
    		A golden one. 
    
    				EBENEZER 
    			(tries to be reasonable)
    		This is the even-handed dealing of the 
    		world! There is nothing on which it is so 
    		hard as poverty; and there is nothing it 
    		professes to condemn with such severity 
    		as the pursuit of wealth!
    
    				BELLE 
    		You fear the world too much.  All your 
    		other hopes have merged into the hope of 
    		being beyond the chance of its sordid 
    		reproach. I have seen your nobler 
    		aspirations fall off one by one, until 
    		the master-passion, Gain, engrosses you. 
    		Have I not?
    
    				EBENEZER 
    		What then? Even if I have grown so much 
    		wiser, what then? I am not changed towards 
    		you.
    
    Belle shakes her head. 
    
    				EBENEZER 
    		Am I?
    
    				BELLE 
    		Our engagement is an old one. It was made
    		when we were both poor and content to be 
    		so, until, in good season, we could improve 
    		our worldly fortune by our patient industry. 
    		You are changed. When it was made, you were 
    		another man.
    
    				EBENEZER 
    			(impatiently)
    		I was a boy. 'Tis true, I am not now what I 
    		was then.
    
    				BELLE 
    		I am. That which promised happiness when 
    		we were one in heart, is fraught with 
    		misery now that we are two. How often and 
    		how keenly I have thought of this, I will 
    		not say. It is enough that I have thought 
    		of it, and can release you from our 
    		engagement.
    
    				EBENEZER 
    		Have I ever sought release?
    
    				BELLE 
    		In words? No. Never.
    
    				EBENEZER 
    		In what, then?
    
    				BELLE 
    		In a changed nature; in an altered spirit; 
    		in another atmosphere of life; another Hope 
    		as its great end. In everything that made 
    		my love of any worth or value in your sight. 
    		If this had never been between us, tell me, 
    		would you seek me out and try to win me now? 
    		Ah, no!
    
    He seems to yield to the justice of this supposition, in spite of himself. 
    
    				EBENEZER 
    		You think not.
    
    				BELLE 
    		I would gladly think otherwise if I could, 
    		Heaven knows! When I have learned a Truth 
    		like this, I know how strong and 
    		irresistible it must be. But if you were 
    		free to-day, to-morrow, yesterday, can 
    		even I believe that you would choose a 
    		dowerless girl -- you who, in your very 
    		confidence with her, weigh everything by 
    		Gain: or, choosing her, if for a moment 
    		you were false enough to your one guiding 
    		principle to do so, do I not know that 
    		your repentance and regret would surely 
    		follow? I do; and I release you from our 
    		engagement. With a full heart, for the love 
    		of him you once were.
    
    A pause.  He is about to speak; but with her head turned from him, she 
    resumes. 
    
    				BELLE 
    		You may -- the memory of what is past half 
    		makes me hope you will -- have pain in this. 
    		A very, very brief time, and you will dismiss 
    		the recollection of it, gladly, as an 
    		unprofitable dream, from which it happened 
    		well that you awoke. May you be happy in the 
    		life you have chosen!
    
    Abruptly, she rises and leaves him. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Spirit! Show me no more! Conduct me home. Why 
    		do you delight to torture me?
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		One shadow more!  
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		No more! No more. I don't wish to see it. 
    		Show me no more!
    
    But the relentless Ghost pinions his arms, and turns him 'round to observe:
    
    INT. BELLE'S SITTING-ROOM - NIGHT
    
    A room, not very large or handsome, but full of comfort and Christmas 
    decorations. All is quiet.  Falling snow is visible out the windows.  Near 
    the fireplace, sits a beautiful young girl, nearly identical to Belle.  Belle 
    herself, now a comely matron, is also by the fire -- sitting opposite her 
    daughter. Scrooge gazes upon them in awe, particularly the daughter.
    
    				NARRATOR 
    			(voice over)
    		I suspect it must have staggered Mr Scrooge 
    		to see these women, especially the younger 
    		one, because had he played his cards 
    		differently, a woman such as she might well 
    		have called him father, and been like a 
    		spring-time for him in the haggard winter 
    		of his life.  
    			(beat) 
    		Of course, he might well have had more than 
    		one child ...
    
    Nearly a dozen children explode into the room, making a tumultuous noise, but 
    no one seems to care; on the contrary, the mother and daughter laugh 
    heartily, and enjoy it very much; and the latter mingles with them and gets 
    clobbered ruthlessly. They stream around a startled Scrooge, running, jumping 
    and playing with enormous energy.
    
    				NARRATOR 
    			(voice over)
    		... Oh, what would I not have given to be 
    		one of those children! Though I never could 
    		have been so rude, no, no! I wouldn't for 
    		the wealth of all the world have behaved so 
    		wildly, God bless my soul! 
    
    Upon a knocking at the door, the children stampede immediately, and the 
    daughter is borne towards it in the centre of the flushed and boisterous 
    group, just in time to greet their father, who comes home laden with 
    Christmas toys and presents.  Shouting and struggling, the kids swarm their 
    father, BELLE'S HUSBAND: scaling him, with chairs for ladders, to dive into 
    his pockets, despoil him of brown-paper parcels, hold on tight by his cravat, 
    hug him round the neck, pummel his back, and kick his legs in irrepressible 
    affection! They shout with wonder and delight at each package they receive.  
    Belle has risen from her chair to watch the proceedings and happens to stand 
    next to Scrooge who watches her and her family closely, no doubt pondering 
    what might have been.
    
    								DISSOLVE TO:
    
    INT. BELLE'S SITTING-ROOM
    
    Later that evening.  Gift-wrapping litters the floor.  The children have gone 
    to bed and all is quiet again.  Scrooge and the Ghost look on as Belle's 
    husband, having his eldest daughter leaning fondly on him, sits down with her 
    and her mother at the fireside;  The husband turns to his wife with a smile.
    
    				BELLE'S HUSBAND
    		Belle, I saw an old friend of yours this 
    		afternoon.
    
    				BELLE 
    		Who was it?
    
    				BELLE'S HUSBAND
    		Guess!
    
    				BELLE 
    		How can I?  Tut, don't I know. Ebenezer 
    		Scrooge.
    
    				BELLE'S HUSBAND
    		Scrooge it was. I passed his office window; 
    		and as it was not shut up, and he had a 
    		candle inside, I could scarcely help seeing 
    		him. His partner lies upon the point of 
    		death, I hear; and there he sat alone. Quite 
    		alone in the world, I do believe.
    
    Scrooge, sitting beside the Ghost on the far side of the room, shuts his eyes 
    and shakes his head.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Spirit! Remove me from this place.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PAST 
    		I told you these were shadows of the things 
    		that have been. That they are what they are, 
    		do not blame me!
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Remove me! I cannot bear it!
    
    Scrooge turns upon the Ghost, and sees that it looks at him with an oddly 
    morphing face, in which there momentarily appear fragments of all the faces 
    it has shown him: his younger selves, Fan, the Fezziwigs, Dick Wilkins, 
    Belle, etc.  Terrified, Scrooge physically attacks the Ghost.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Leave me! Take me back. Haunt me no longer!
    
    The Ghost offers no visible resistance of its own but remains undisturbed by 
    Scrooge's attack, the light from its head burns high and bright; Scrooge 
    seizes the extinguisher-cap from under its arm and presses it down upon the 
    Ghost's head. The Ghost seems to shrink beneath it, so that the extinguisher 
    covers its whole form; but though Scrooge presses it down with all his force, 
    he can't hide the light, which streams from under it, in an unbroken flood 
    upon the ground. In a last great effort, he throws the whole of his body atop 
    the cap and the light goes out.  Blackness.
    
    INT. SCROOGE'S BED-ROOM
    
    The room is dark -- no light shines under the bed-room door from the sitting-
    room. Scrooge -- in roughly the same position we last saw him -- lies in his 
    bed atop his pillow.  In the middle of a prodigiously tough snore, Scrooge 
    awakens with a start and sits up in bed.  He lights his candle and looks 
    around.  His bedside clock reads five minutes to one.
    
    				NARRATOR 
    			(voice over)
    		Now, Marley's Ghost had warned Scrooge that 
    		a second spirit would haunt him at the 
    		stroke of one.  I don't mind telling you 
    		that Scrooge was now prepared for a good 
    		broad field of strange appearances, and 
    		that nothing between a baby and a rhinoceros 
    		would have astonished him very much. By this 
    		time, he was ready for almost anything ...  
    
    From the church clock, the chimes strike one.  Scrooge steels himself.
    
    				NARRATOR 
    			(voice over)
    		... But, you see, he was not by any means 
    		ready for nothing ...
    
    And nothing is exactly what happens.  After a lengthy pause, Scrooge checks 
    his clock, sighs and, with a last look around, blows out the candle and lies 
    down on the bed.  Suddenly, he bolts straight up -- staring at his bed-room 
    door.  Light is again streaming in from the sitting-room.  Scrooge gets up 
    softly and shuffles in his slippers to the door.  His hand is on the lock 
    when a voice from the sitting-room calls out.
    
    				VOICE 
    		Scrooooooge?  Come in, Scrooge!
    
    A trembling Scrooge opens the door and enters:
    
    INT. SCROOGE'S SITTING-ROOM
    
    It's his own room, but it's undergone a transformation. The walls and ceiling 
    are so hung with living green, that it looks a perfect grove; from every part 
    of which, bright gleaming berries glisten. Crisp leaves of holly, mistletoe, 
    and ivy reflect back the light like so many little mirrors; and a mighty 
    blaze roars in the fire-place. Heaped up on the floor, to form a kind of 
    throne, are turkeys, geese, game, poultry, brawn, great joints of meat, 
    sucking-pigs, long wreaths of sausages, mince-pies, plum-puddings, barrels of 
    oysters, red-hot chestnuts, cherry-cheeked apples, juicy oranges, luscious 
    pears, immense twelfth-cakes, and seething bowls of punch, that make the 
    chamber dim with their delicious steam. In easy state upon this couch, there 
    sits a jolly Giant, glorious to see: who carries a glowing torch, in shape 
    not unlike Plenty's horn, and holds it up, high up, to shed its light on 
    Scrooge, as he comes peeping round the door. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT
    		Come in! Come in and know me better, man! 
    
    Scrooge enters timidly.  The Spirit's eyes are clear and kind, but Scrooge 
    does not look at them. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		I am the Ghost of Christmas Present!  Look 
    		upon me!
    
    Scrooge does so. The ghost wears a simple green robe, or mantle, bordered 
    with white fur, hanging so loosely on the figure, that its capacious breast 
    is bare, as if disdaining to be warded or concealed by any artifice. Its 
    feet, observable beneath the ample folds of the garment, are also bare; and 
    on its head it wears no other covering than a holly wreath, set here and 
    there with shining icicles. Its dark brown curls are long and free: free as 
    its genial face, its sparkling eye, its open hand, its cheery voice, its 
    unconstrained demeanour, and its joyful air. Girded round its middle is an 
    antique scabbard; but with no sword in it, and the ancient sheath is eaten up 
    with rust. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		You have never seen the like of me before?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Never. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		Have never walked forth with my elder 
    		brothers born in these later years?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I don't think I have.  I am afraid I have 
    		not. Have you had many brothers, Spirit?
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		Approximately eighteen hundred and 
    		forty-two. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		A tremendous family to provide for! 
    
    The Ghost of Christmas Present smiles and rises. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Spirit, conduct me where you will. I went 
    		forth last night on compulsion, and I learnt 
    		a lesson which is working now. To-night, if 
    		you have aught to teach me, let me profit by 
    		it.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		Touch my robe!
    
    Scrooge does as he's told, and holds it fast. Holly, mistletoe, red berries, 
    ivy, turkeys, geese, game, poultry, brawn, meat, pigs, sausages, oysters, 
    pies, puddings, fruit, and punch, all vanish instantly. So does the room, the 
    fire, the ruddy glow, the hour of night...
    
    EXT. CITY STREET - DAY
    
    Scrooge and the Spirit wander the city streets on Christmas morning, where 
    the severe weather causes the people to make a rough, but brisk and not 
    unpleasant kind of music, in scraping the snow from the pavement in front of 
    their dwellings, and from the tops of their houses.  Scrooge and the Spirit 
    see that the corner poulterer's shop is still open, and in its window hang 
    two Prize Turkeys.  One is the size of a boy, the other a little smaller.  
    Happy crowds pour forth into the streets on their way to church, dressed in 
    their Sunday best.  Scrooge and the Spirit press on into Camden Town. 
    
    EXT. BOB CRATCHIT'S HOME
    
    On the threshold of the door, Scrooge watches as the Spirit smiles and stops 
    to bless Bob Cratchit's four-roomed house with an unspoken prayer.
    
    INT. BOB CRATCHIT'S HOME
    
    MRS CRATCHIT, Bob Cratchit's wife, dressed out but poorly in a twice-turned 
    gown, but brave in ribbons, which are cheap and make a goodly show for 
    sixpence; and she lays the table-cloth, assisted by BELINDA, second of her 
    daughters, also brave in ribbons; while the adolescent Master PETER Cratchit 
    plunges a fork into the saucepan of potatoes, then into his mouth. Two 
    smaller Cratchits, boy and girl, come tearing in, screaming something 
    incomprehensible; and basking in luxurious thoughts of sage-and-onion, these 
    young Cratchits dance about the table. The eldest, Peter Cratchit, blows the 
    fire, until the slow potatoes, bubbling up, knock loudly at the saucepan-lid. 
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT
    		What has ever got your precious father then. 
    		And your brother, Tiny Tim! And Martha warn't 
    		as late last Christmas Day by half-an-hour! 
    
    As if on cue, MARTHA, the eldest daughter, enters.
    
    				MARTHA
    		Here's Martha, mother! 
    
    				THE TWO SMALL CRATCHITS 
    		Here's Martha, mother! Hurrah! There's such 
    		a goose, Martha!
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    		Why, bless your heart alive, my dear, how 
    		late you are!
    
    Mrs Cratchit, kisses Martha, and takes off her shawl and bonnet for her with 
    officious zeal. 
    
    				MARTHA 
    		We'd a deal of work to finish up last night 
    		and had to clear away this morning, mother!
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    		Well! Never mind so long as you are come. 
    		Sit ye down before the fire, my dear, and 
    		have a warm, Lord bless ye!
    
    				THE TWO SMALL CRATCHITS 
    		No, no! There's father coming.  Hide, 
    		Martha, hide!
    
    So Martha hides herself, and, to Scrooge's surprise -- for until now, he 
    hadn't a clue as to whose house this was -- in comes little Bob Cratchit, the 
    father, with at least three feet of comforter hanging down before him; and 
    his threadbare clothes darned up and brushed, to look seasonable; and TINY 
    TIM upon his shoulder. He sets Tim down gently.  Alas for Tiny Tim, he bears 
    a little crutch, and has his limbs supported by an iron frame.  He limps 
    badly, favoring his right leg.  Bob looks around.
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		Why, where's our Martha?
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    		Not coming.
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    			(heartbroken)
    		Not coming!  Not coming upon Christmas Day!
    
    Martha doesn't like to see him disappointed, even if it were only in joke; so 
    she comes out prematurely from behind the closet door, and runs into his 
    arms, while the two young Cratchits help Tiny Tim to the wash-house, that he 
    might hear the pudding singing in the copper. Bob hugs Martha to his heart's 
    content until she breaks away to tend to the supper.  Husband and wife are 
    alone for a moment.
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    		And how did little Tim behave in church?
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		As good as gold, and better. Somehow he 
    		gets thoughtful, sitting by himself so 
    		much, and thinks the strangest things 
    		you ever heard. He told me, coming home, 
    		that he hoped the people in church saw 
    		him, because he was a cripple, and it 
    		might be pleasant to them to remember 
    		upon Christmas Day, who made lame beggars 
    		walk, and blind men see. 
    			(a long pause) 
    		He's growing stronger and heartier every 
    		day, isn't he?
    
    The look that crosses Mrs Cratchit's face is not encouraging.
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    			(quietly)
    		Yes, dear.  He is.
    
    With his active little crutch, Tiny Tim returns, escorted by his brother and 
    sister to his stool before the fire; 
    
    				THE TWO SMALL CRATCHITS 
    		The goose is cooked!  The goose is cooked!
    
    CHRISTMAS DINNER MONTAGE
    
    Bob Cratchit turns up his cuffs and compounds some hot mixture in a jug with 
    gin and lemons, and stirs it round and round and puts it on the hob to 
    simmer;  Peter, and the two ubiquitous young Cratchits fetch the goose and 
    carry it to the table.  Mrs Cratchit pours the gravy, hissing hot; Peter 
    mashed the potatoes with incredible vigour; Miss Belinda sweetens up the 
    apple-sauce; Martha dusts the hot plates; Bob takes Tiny Tim beside him in a 
    tiny corner at the table; the two young Cratchits set chairs for everybody, 
    not forgetting themselves. At last, the table is set -- goose, apple-sauce 
    and mashed potatoes. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(to the Spirit, matter-of-fact)
    		Hmmph.  Not much of a goose.
    
    				TINY TIM
    		Bless us, O Lord! and these Thy gifts, 
    		which we are about to receive from Thy 
    		bounty, through Christ our Lord. Amen. 
    
    A breathless pause, as Mrs Cratchit, looking slowly all along the carving-
    knife, prepares to plunge it in the breast; but when she does, and when the 
    long expected gush of stuffing issues forth, one murmur of delight arises all 
    round the table, and even Tiny Tim, excited by the two young Cratchits, beats 
    on the table with the handle of his knife, and feebly cries "Hurrah!"  In a 
    moment, everyone's mouth is full. 
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    			(to Mrs Cratchit)
    		I don't believe there ever was such a goose 
    		cooked. So tender.
    
    				MARTHA 
    			(to Mrs Cratchit)
    		And delicious.
    
    				ONE OF THE SMALL CRATCHITS 
    			(to Mrs Cratchit)
    		And big.
    
    				MRS CRATCHIT 
    			(wryly)
    		And cheap. 
    
    				TINY TIM 
    			(to Mrs Cratchit)
    		It's lovely, Mother.  This a goose we shall 
    		remember for as long as we live.
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    		Thank you, Tim.
    
    After a DISSOLVE, Miss Belinda changes the plates.  Mrs Cratchit is visibly 
    nervous.
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    		I can't stand to look at the pudding.  
    		Suppose it should not be done enough? 
    		Suppose it should break in turning out?
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    			(mock horror)
    		Suppose somebody should have got over 
    		the wall of the back-yard, and stolen it, 
    		while we were eating the goose?
    
    Bob's mouth makes a perfect O and his eyebrows almost leave his head.  The 
    two small Cratchits become livid and start yelling at him. Everyone roars 
    with laughter at this, even Mrs Cratchit.  Belinda bursts into the room 
    accompanied by a great deal of steam and, in an instant, the pudding is out 
    of the copper like a speckled cannon-ball, hard and firm, blazing in half of 
    half-a-quartern of ignited brandy, and bedight with Christmas holly stuck 
    into the top.  Everyone oohs and aahhhs as Mrs Cratchit blushes and smiles 
    proudly. 
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		Oh, a wonderful pudding! 
    
    Bob Cratchit holds up a glass to propose a toast.
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		A Merry Christmas to us all, my dears. 
    		God bless us!
    
    Which all the family re-echoes. 
    
    				TINY TIM 
    		God bless us every one! 
    
    The family drinks and gets to work on the pudding.  Tim sits very close to 
    his father's side upon his little stool. Bob holds Tim's withered little hand 
    in his, as if he wished to keep him by his side, and dreaded that he might be 
    taken from him.  Scrooge watches them with fascination -- it's a side of 
    Cratchit he's never thought of.  Without taking his eyes off them, he nods to 
    the Spirit.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Spirit ... tell me if Tiny Tim will live.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		I see a vacant seat in the poor chimney-
    		corner, and a crutch without an owner, 
    		carefully preserved. If these shadows 
    		remain unaltered by the Future, the child 
    		will die.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		No, no. Oh, no, kind Spirit! say he will 
    		be spared.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		If these shadows remain unaltered by the 
    		Future, none other of my race will find him 
    		here. What then? 
    			(assuming Scrooge's voice) 
    		If he be like to die, he had better do it, 
    		and decrease the surplus population.
    
    Overcome with penitence and grief, Scrooge hangs his head to hear his own 
    words quoted.
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		Man, if man you be in heart, not adamant, 
    		forbear that wicked cant until you have 
    		discovered What the surplus is, and Where 
    		it is. Will you decide what men shall live,
    		 what men shall die? It may be, that in the 
    		sight of Heaven, you are more worthless and 
    		less fit to live than millions like this 
    		poor man's child. Oh God! to hear the 
    		Insect on the leaf pronouncing on the too 
    		much life among his hungry brothers in the 
    		dust! 
    
    Scrooge bends before the Spirit's rebuke, and trembling, casts his eyes upon 
    the ground. 
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		Mr Scrooge!
    
    Scrooge looks up, startled to hear someone call his name. Bob Cratchit holds 
    a glass up to him, making a toast.
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		I'll give you Mr Scrooge, the Founder of 
    		the Feast!
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    			(blushes)
    		The Founder of the Feast indeed! I wish I 
    		had him here. I'd give him a piece of my 
    		mind to feast upon, and I hope he'd have 
    		a good appetite for it.
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    			(gently chiding)
    		My dear, the children; Christmas Day.
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT  
    		It should be Christmas Day, I am sure, on 
    		which one drinks the health of such an 
    		odious, stingy, hard, unfeeling man as Mr 
    		Scrooge. You know he is, Robert! Nobody 
    		knows it better than you do, poor fellow!
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		My dear, have some charity.  It's Christmas 
    		Day.
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    		I'll drink his health for your sake and the 
    		Day's, not for his. Long life to him. A 
    		merry Christmas and a happy new year! He'll 
    		be very merry and very happy, I have no 
    		doubt!
    
    The children drink the toast after her, the first time they show no 
    heartiness. Tiny Tim drinks last of all, not caring. Scrooge sees he is the 
    Ogre of the family and turns away from them, toward the window where the 
    evening sun sets.
    
    EXT. MOOR - SUNSET
    
    Scrooge and the Spirit stand on a bleak and desert moor, where monstrous 
    masses of rude stone are cast about, as though it were the burial-place of 
    giants; where nothing grows but moss and furze, and coarse, rank grass. Down 
    in the west the setting sun leaves a streak of fiery red, which glares upon 
    the desolation for an instant, like a sullen eye, and frowning lower, lower, 
    lower yet, was lost in the thick gloom of darkest night. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		What place is this?
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		A place where Miners live, who labour in 
    		the bowels of the earth. But they know me. 
    		See!
    
    A light shines from the window of a hut, and swiftly Scrooge and the Spirit 
    advance towards it. Passing through the wall of mud and stone, they find:
    
    INT. HUT - NIGHT
    
    A cheerful FAMILY assembled round a glowing fire. An old, old man and woman, 
    with their children and their children's children, and another generation 
    beyond that, all decked out gaily in their holiday attire. The old man, in a 
    quiet but fervent voice, sings them a Christmas song, and they all join in 
    the chorus.  The Spirit gestures to Scrooge to hold his robe, and the two 
    rise up through the roof of the hut and high into:
    
    EXT. THE NIGHT SKY
    
    They fly above the moor, speeding out to sea. To Scrooge's horror, looking 
    back, he sees the last of the land, a frightful range of rocks, behind them;
    
    EXT. THE OCEAN
    
    The Spirit and Scrooge: two rapidly moving silhouettes skimming the ocean's 
    surface.
    
    EXT. LIGHTHOUSE
    
    Built upon a dismal reef of sunken rocks, some league or so from shore, on 
    which the waters chafe and dash, there stands a solitary lighthouse. Great 
    heaps of sea-weed cling to its base, and storm-birds -- born of the wind one 
    might suppose, as sea-weed of the water -- rise and fall about it, like the 
    waves they skim. 
    
    INT. LIGHTHOUSE
    
    Two LIGHTHOUSE KEEPERS have made a fire, that through the loophole in the 
    thick stone wall sheds out a ray of brightness on the awful sea. Joining 
    their horny hands over the rough table at which they sat, they toast each 
    other a Merry Christmas in their can of grog; and one of them -- the elder, 
    with his face all damaged and scarred with hard weather, as the figure-head 
    of an old ship might be -- strikes up the song heard in the miners' hut. Just 
    outside their window, a hundred ten feet in the air, Scrooge and the Spirit 
    watch.  The Spirit gives Scrooge a tug -- and off they fly.
    
    EXT.  SHIP MONTAGE - DAY
    
    As the sun rises on a distant horizon, Scrooge and the Spirit observe: the 
    helmsman at the wheel as a fellow sailor quietly wishes him a Merry 
    Christmas; the look-out in the bow as he hums a carol; two officers on watch 
    exchanging gifts; dark, ghostly figures in their several stations; but every 
    man among them, lost in thought. In the galley, an illiterate sailor dictates 
    a letter to a friend.
    
    				SAILOR 
    			(dictates)
    		My dearest, dearest Emily.  The holiday 
    		season finds my thoughts turning ever more 
    		to you ... 
    			(to the friend) 
    		How's that, so far?
    
    The friend merely looks at him and shrugs.
    
    				SAILOR 
    			(dictates)
    		I should like to have been home this 
    		Christmas, but I am afraid I have been 
    		shanghaied ....
    
    From behind him, Scrooge hears a long, hearty -- and familiar -- laugh.  
    After a moment, he recognises it.
    
    				SCROOGE  
    		Fred?
    
    He turns toward the laugh, suddenly finding himself in:
    
    INT. HIS NEPHEW'S SITTING-ROOM - NIGHT
    
    A bright, dry, gleaming room in a finely-appointed house.  The Spirit, 
    standing smiling by Scrooge's side, looks at Scrooge's nephew with approving 
    affability. Scrooge's nephew Fred laughs: holding his sides, rolling his 
    head, and twisting his face into the most extravagant contortions: Scrooge's 
    NIECE, by marriage, laughs as heartily as he. And their assembled friends 
    being not a bit behindhand, roar out lustily. 
    
    				FRED 
    		He said that Christmas was a humbug, as I 
    		live! He believed it too!
    
    				NIECE
    		More shame for him, Fred!
    
    Scrooge's niece is exceedingly pretty. With a dimpled, surprised-looking, 
    capital face; a ripe little mouth, that seems made to be kissed -- as no 
    doubt it often is; She is seated in a large chair with a footstool, in a snug 
    corner right by the door -- and never leaves this position. 
    
    				ONE OF THE GUESTS
    		I should very much like to meet your uncle, 
    		Fred.  The droll way in which you portray 
    		him makes me curious.
    
    				FRED 
    		He's a comical old fellow, that's the truth: 
    		and not so pleasant as he might be. However, 
    		his offences carry their own punishment, and 
    		I have nothing to say against him.
    
    				NIECE 
    		I'm sure he is very rich, Fred. At least you 
    		always tell me so.
    
    				FRED 
    		What of that, my dear? His wealth is of no 
    		use to him. He don't do any good with it. 
    		He don't make himself comfortable with it. 
    		He hasn't the satisfaction of thinking -- 
    		ha, ha, ha! -- that he is ever going to 
    		benefit Us with it. 
    
    				NIECE 
    		I have no patience with him. 
    
    				ANOTHER WOMAN  
    		Nor I.
    
    				FRED 
    		Oh, I have! I am sorry for him; I couldn't 
    		be angry with him if I tried. Who suffers 
    		by his ill whims? Himself, always. Here, 
    		he takes it into his head to dislike us, 
    		and he won't come and dine with us. What's 
    		the consequence? He don't lose much of a 
    		dinner.
    
    				NIECE 
    		Indeed, I think he loses a very good dinner.  
    		Really, Fred, I think you're being awfully 
    		charitable.
    
    				FRED  
    		If that's so, it may be because my mother, 
    		God rest her saintly soul, was very fond 
    		of him.  She loved him.
    
    The Spirit glances at Scrooge who tries to appear unmoved.
    
    				NIECE 
    		But do go on, Fred. 
    			(to the guests) 
    		He never finishes what he begins to say. 
    		He is such a ridiculous fellow!
    
    				FRED 
    		I was only going to say, that the 
    		consequence of his taking a dislike to us, 
    		and not making merry with us, is, as I 
    		think, that he loses some pleasant moments, 
    		which could do him no harm. I am sure he 
    		loses pleasanter companions than he can find 
    		in his own thoughts, either in his mouldy 
    		old office, or his dusty chambers. I mean 
    		to give him the same chance every year, 
    		whether he likes it or not, for I pity him. 
    		He may rail at Christmas till he dies, but 
    		he can't help thinking better of it -- I 
    		defy him -- if he finds me going there, in 
    		good temper, year after year, and saying 
    		Uncle Scrooge, how are you? If it only puts 
    		him in the vein to leave his poor clerk 
    		fifty pounds, that's something; and I think 
    		I shook him yesterday.
    
    Before Fred finishes, one of the female guests has begun to play a simple 
    little tune upon the harp; and the others choose partners and take to dancing 
    about the room. There might be twenty people there, young and old, but they 
    all dance.  The rhythm is infectious and Scrooge keeps time with his feet, 
    enjoying himself in a quiet way. The Spirit seems greatly pleased to find him 
    in this mood.
    
    								DISSOLVE TO:
    
    INT. HIS NEPHEW'S SITTING-ROOM
    
    Later that evening.  Everyone is seated.  Scrooge's niece is in her usual 
    chair by the door.  Scrooge and the Spirit -- whose hair has by now greyed 
    considerably -- stand nearby.  One of the guests, TOPPER, stands in the 
    center of the room trying to keep everyone's attention.
    
    				TOPPER
    		Now, then, it's a Game called Yes and No. 
    			(to Fred) 
    		Since you're the host, you'll go first. 
    
    But Fred is reluctant and waves him off.  The others jeer at him to take part 
    and he forces himself to rise.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(to the Spirit) 
    		I think we should at least stay until the 
    		guests have departed. 
    
    				FRED 
    			(to Topper)
    		Oh, dear.  What do I have to do?
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		I'm afraid that cannot be done. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Here is a new game. One half hour, Spirit, 
    		only one!
    
    				TOPPER 
    			(to Fred)
    		You think of something, anything, and the 
    		rest of us must find out what it is; But you 
    		may only answer our questions 'yes' or 'no', 
    		as the case may be. 
    
    				FRED 
    		Ah, all right.  Well .... Oh, I've got it.  
    
    				TOPPER
    		You've thought of something?
    
    				FRED 
    		Yes. Fire away.
    
    				NOT TOO BRIGHT GUEST
    		Is it animal, vegetable, or mineral?
    
    				TOPPER 
    			(to the guest)
    		No, no, no.  It has to be a question he can 
    		answer 'yes' or 'no'.  
    			(to Fred) 
    		Are you thinking of an animal?
    
    				FRED 
    			(grins) 
    		Yes.
    
    				NOT TOO BRIGHT GUEST
    		Living or dead?
    
    Everyone giggles at the Not Too Bright Guest.  Topper sits down.
    
    				SOMEONE ELSE
    		Is it living?
    
    				FRED 
    		Yes.
    
    				ANOTHER GUEST
    		A wild animal?
    
    				FRED 
    			(laughs)
    		Well ...
    
    				SOMEONE ELSE
    		Can it be found in London?
    
    				FRED 
    		Yes.  I'm afraid so.
    
    				ANOTHER GUEST 
    		Does it live in a menagerie?
    
    				FRED 
    		No!  Wouldn't go near it.
    
    				THE PLUMP SISTER
    		Is it a horse?
    
    				FRED 
    		No!
    
    				NIECE 
    		Is it an ass?
    
    At this, Fred roars with laughter; and is so inexpressibly tickled, that he 
    doubles over and stamps his foot.
    
    				FRED 
    		No!
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Is it a cow?
    
    The Spirit gives Scrooge a look as if to say: "They can't hear you..." and 
    Scrooge scowls as if to say: "Shut up.  I'm having fun."
    
    				SOMEONE ELSE 
    		Does it walk the streets?
    
    				FRED 
    		Yes!
    
    				NIECE 
    		Is it some kind of rat?
    
    				FRED 
    			(laughs, clutches his sides)
    		No!  Maybe a pack-rat.
    
    				TOPPER
    		Wait!  Is it a man?
    
    Fred bites his lip to keep from laughing and nods, Yes.
    
    				THE PLUMP SISTER
    		I have found it out! I know what it is, Fred! 
    		I know what it is!
    
    				SEVERAL GUESTS 
    			(ad-lib) 
    		What is it? What?
    
    				THE PLUMP SISTER
    		It's your Uncle Scro-o-o-o-oge!
    
    				FRED 
    		Yes!
    
    Everybody, even the Spirit, roars with laughter, except Scrooge, who is 
    stunned -- and a trifle humiliated.  The niece, right beside Scrooge, grins 
    mischievously and wags a finger at Fred.
    
    				NIECE 
    		That's not fair!  When I asked 'Is it an 
    		ass?', you should have answered 'yes'!
    
    Everybody roars even louder at this, except Scrooge, who is now completely 
    humiliated.  Fred picks up his glass of wine.
    
    				FRED 
    		He has given us plenty of merriment, I am 
    		sure, and it would be ungrateful not to 
    		drink his health. I say, 'Uncle Scrooge!'" 
    
    				SEVERAL GUESTS 
    			(ad-lib)
    		Well! Uncle Scrooge. Here's to 'im!
    
    				FRED 
    		A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to 
    		the old man, whatever he is! He wouldn't 
    		take it from me, but may he have it, 
    		nevertheless. Uncle Scrooge!
    
    The Ghost and Scrooge exchange glances.  The niece drinks and sets down her 
    empty glass.
    
    INT. CHARITY WARD
    
    Where someone else sets down an empty glass:  a wretched woman with an infant 
    -- the one Scrooge saw from his window during the visit of Marley's Ghost -- 
    one of many destitute people, wrapped in blankets, lying on cots in the 
    crowded room.  Scrooge watches as a young BOY comes around to pick up her 
    glass.  Others like him attend to a multitude of the sick and the poor.
    
    				WRETCHED WOMAN 
    		Thank you.  Thank you, so much.  
    
    				BOY
    		Do you feel rested now?
    
    				WRETCHED WOMAN 
    		I do. Bless your dear gentle heart. You know, 
    		my dear, I-I'm very grateful for all you're 
    		doing.  If I'd've known you people were here, 
    		I'd've come sooner.  And brought friends.  
    		There are a lot of people I know who could 
    		use your help--  Tell me, why-why aren't 
    		there more places like this?
    
    The boy doesn't quite know how to respond.
    
    				BOY
    		I don't know.  
    
    He can only smile weakly, touch her arm, and move on.  He walks past a couple 
    of familiar faces: the two portly gentlemen who paid a visit to Scrooge the 
    day before seeking a charitable donation.  They stand off to one side 
    surveying the scene with mixed emotions.
    
    				2ND GENTLEMAN  
    		Quite a turn-out.
    
    				1ST GENTLEMAN  
    		More than expected.  
    			(matter-of-fact)
    		We haven't enough funds to last until next 
    		week.
    
    				2ND GENTLEMAN  
    		Something will turn up, I'm sure.
    
    Scrooge observes the 1st Gentleman pulling a fancy watch from his pocket and 
    staring at it.  The 2nd Gentleman looks him over sympathetically.
    
    				2ND GENTLEMAN  
    		It's been long day.  Thinking about going 
    		home to the family?
    
    The 1st Gentleman shakes his head, No.
    
    				1ST GENTLEMAN 
    			(wryly)
    		Thinking about selling a watch.
    
    The watch reads but a few minutes before midnight.
    
    								DISSOLVE TO:
    
    EXT. THE SHADOW OF A CHURCH TOWER
    
    The church clock reads but a few minutes before midnight.  Scrooge and the 
    Spirit stand below it.  While Scrooge remains unaltered in his outward form, 
    the Ghost has grown older, clearly older, its hair whitened with age. Scrooge 
    squints at the Spirit as they stand together.
    
    				SCROOGE  
    		Your hair is grey.  Are spirits' lives so 
    		short? 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		My life is very brief. It ends to-night.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		To-night!
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		To-night at midnight.
    
    Scrooge's gaze goes from the clock to the Spirit's robe.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Forgive me if I am not justified in what I 
    		ask, but I see something strange, and not 
    		belonging to yourself, protruding from your 
    		skirts. Is it a foot or a claw?
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		It might well be a claw, for all the flesh 
    		there is upon it.  Look here.
    
    From the foldings of its robe, it brings two children; wretched, abject, 
    frightful, hideous, miserable. They kneel down at its feet, and cling upon 
    the outside of its garment. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		Oh, Man! look here. Look, look, down here!
    
    A boy and girl. Yellow, meagre, ragged, scowling, wolfish; but prostrate, 
    too, in their humility. Where graceful youth should have filled their 
    features out, and touched them with its freshest tints, a stale and 
    shrivelled hand, like that of age, has pinched, and twisted them, and pulled 
    them into shreds. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Spirit! are they yours?
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		They are Man's.  And they cling to me, 
    		appealing from their fathers. This boy is 
    		Ignorance. This girl is Want. Beware them 
    		both, and all of their degree, but most of 
    		all beware this boy, for on his brow I see 
    		that written which is Doom, unless the 
    		writing be erased. Deny it!
    
    The Spirit stretches out its hand towards the city. 
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    		Slander those who tell it ye! Admit it for 
    		your factious purposes, and make it worse! 
    		And bide the end!
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Have they no refuge or resource?
    
    				THE GHOST OF CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
    			(assuming Scrooge's voice)
    		Are there no prisons?  Are there no 
    		workhouses?
    
    Scrooge winces at this. The church bell strikes twelve. Scrooge looks about 
    him.  The Spirit is gone.  Another, a solemn Phantom, draped and hooded, 
    comes, like a mist along the ground, towards him. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(to himself)
    		Midnight.  The last of the spirits.
    
    The Phantom slowly, gravely, silently approaches. Scrooge bends down upon his 
    knee; for in the very air through which this Phantom moves it seems to 
    scatter gloom and mystery. It is shrouded in a deep black garment, which 
    conceals its head, its face, its form, and leaves nothing of it visible save 
    one outstretched hand. But for this it would be difficult to detach its 
    figure from the night, and separate it from the darkness by which it is 
    surrounded.  It is tall and stately and its mysterious presence fills Scrooge 
    with a solemn dread. The Phantom neither speaks nor moves. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I am in the presence of the Ghost of 
    		Christmas Yet To Come? 
    
    The Phantom answers not, but points onward with its hand. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		You are about to show me shadows of the 
    		things that have not happened, but will 
    		happen in the time before us.  Is that so, 
    		Spirit?
    
    The upper portion of the garment contracts for an instant in its folds, as if 
    the Phantom had nodded its head.  
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Ghost of the Future! I fear you more than any 
    		spectre I have seen. But as I know your purpose 
    		is to do me good, and as I hope to live to be 
    		another man from what I was, I am prepared to 
    		bear you company, and do it with a thankful 
    		heart. Will you not speak to me?
    
    It gives him no reply. The hand points straight before them. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Lead on! Lead on! The night is waning fast, 
    		and it is precious time to me, I know. Lead 
    		on, Spirit! 
    
    The Phantom moves away as it had come towards him. Scrooge follows in its 
    shadow, which seems to bear him up and carry him along. 
    
    INT. THE LONDON EXCHANGE - DAY
    
    They scarcely seem to enter the Exchange; for the Exchange rather seems to 
    spring up about them, and encompass them of its own act. They stand amongst 
    the businessmen;  The Phantom stops and points to one little knot of men. 
    Scrooge peers at them.  Among them are the fat man and the red-faced man he 
    had spoken to the day before.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Yes, I know these gentlemen.  Business 
    		associates.
    
    The Phantom continues to point.  Scrooge takes the hint and advances to 
    listen to their talk. 
    
    				FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN
    		No, I don't know much about it, either way. 
    		I only know he's dead.
    
    				2nd MAN 
    		When did he die?
    
    				FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN
    		Last night, I believe.
    
    				3rd MAN 
    		Why, what was the matter with him? I thought 
    		he'd never die.
    
    				FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN 
    			(yawns)
    		God knows. 
    
    				RED-FACED MAN WITH A 
    				PENDULOUS EXCRESCENCE
    	 	What has he done with his money? 
    
    				FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN
    		I haven't heard. Left it to his Company, 
    		perhaps. He hasn't left it to me. That's all 
    		I know.
    
    Everyone laughs. 
    
    				FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN
    		It's likely to be a very cheap funeral, for 
    		upon my life I don't know of anybody to go 
    		to it. Suppose we make up a party and 
    		volunteer?
    
    				RED-FACED MAN WITH A 
    				PENDULOUS EXCRESCENCE
    		I don't mind going if a lunch is provided.  
    		But I must be fed, if I make one.
    
    Another laugh. 
    
    				FAT MAN WITH A MONSTROUS CHIN
    		Well, I am the most disinterested among you, 
    		after all, for I never wear black gloves, 
    		and I never eat lunch. But I'll offer to go,
    		if anybody else will. When I come to think 
    		of it, I'm not at all sure that I wasn't his 
    		most particular friend; for we used to stop 
    		and speak whenever we met. Bye, bye!
    
    The men stroll away, and mix with other groups. Scrooge looks towards the 
    Spirit for an explanation. The Phantom glides on into another street. 
    
    EXT. LONDON EXCHANGE
    
    The Phantom's finger points to two middle-aged men meeting on the massive 
    stone steps. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(to the Phantom)
    		I know these men, perfectly. Men of 
    		business: very wealthy, and of great 
    		importance. I've made a point always of 
    		standing well in their esteem -- in a 
    		business point of view, that is; strictly 
    		business. 
    
    				1st BUSINESSMAN 
    		How are you?
    
    				2nd BUSINESSMAN 
    		How are you?
    
    				1st BUSINESSMAN 
    		Well! Old Scratch has got his own at last, 
    		hey?
    
    				2nd BUSINESSMAN 
    		So I am told. Cold, isn't it?
    
    				1st BUSINESSMAN 
    		Seasonable for Christmas time. You're not 
    		a skaiter, I suppose?
    
    				2nd BUSINESSMAN 
    		No. No. Something else to think of. Good 
    		morning!
    
    The two men part. A puzzled Scrooge follows the Phantom through the streets.
    
    EXT. CITY STREET
    
    A busy street corner.  Scrooge peers curiously at the Phantom.
    
    				SCROOGE  
    		I am rather surprised that you should 
    		attach importance to conversations 
    		apparently so trivial.
    
    No response from the Phantom.
    
    				SCROOGE  
    		They must have some hidden purpose, or 
    		else you wouldn't be showing them to me. 
    		Is that right?
    
    No response.
    
    				SCROOGE  
    		They could scarcely have any bearing on 
    		the death of Jacob, my old partner, for 
    		his death was in the Past, and this is 
    		the Future.
    
    Scrooge looks around at the multitudes of pedestrians pouring past him.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I can't help but notice that this is my 
    		accustomed corner, and I see by the clock 
    		that this is my usual time of day for being 
    		here... but I see no likeness of myself. 
    
    Caught up in what he's saying, Scrooge fails to see the Phantom move off.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Not that I'm surprised, you understand.  
    		You see, I've been revolving in my mind a, 
    		er, change of life.  And I should like to 
    		think...  that is, I rather hope... that my 
    		not being here is the result of my having 
    		carried out some, ah, resolutions regarding -- 
    
    Scrooge suddenly notices that the Phantom has moved on down the street and 
    hurriedly follows it.
    
    EXT. BAD PART OF TOWN - DUSK
    
    Scrooge trails the Phantom, looking over this neighborhood, near sunset.  The 
    ways are foul and narrow; the shops and houses wretched; the people half-
    naked, drunken, slipshod, ugly. Alleys and archways, like so many cesspools, 
    disgorge their offences of smell, and dirt, and life, upon the straggling 
    streets; and the whole quarter reeks with crime, with filth, and misery. 
    
    INT. SHOP - NIGHT
    
    A low-browed, beetling shop, below a pent-house roof, where iron, old rags, 
    bottles, bones, and greasy offal, are bought. Upon the floor within, are 
    piled up heaps of rusty keys, nails, chains, hinges, files, scales, weights, 
    and refuse iron of all kinds. Secrets that few would like to scrutinise are 
    bred and hidden in mountains of unseemly rags, masses of corrupted fat, and 
    sepulchres of bones. Sitting in among the wares he deals in, by a charcoal 
    stove, made of old bricks, is a grey-haired rascal, nearly seventy years of 
    age who smokes his pipe in all the luxury of calm retirement. This is OLD JOE.
    
    Scrooge and the Phantom come into his presence, just as a CHARWOMAN with a 
    heavy bundle slinks into the shop. But she has scarcely entered, when another 
    woman, a LAUNDRESS, similarly laden, comes in too; and she is closely 
    followed by a man in faded black, an UNDERTAKER, who is no less startled by 
    the sight of them, than they had been upon the recognition of each other. 
    After a short period of blank astonishment, in which Old Joe joins them, they 
    all three burst into a laugh. 
    
    				CHARWOMAN 
    			(to all)
    		Let the charwoman alone to be the first! 
    		Let the laundress alone to be the second; 
    		and let the undertaker's man alone to be 
    		the third. 
    			(to Old Joe) 
    		Look here, old Joe, here's a chance! If we 
    		haven't all three met here without meaning 
    		it!
    
    				OLD JOE
    		You couldn't have met in a better place.  
    		Come into the parlour. You were made free 
    		of it long ago, you know; and the other two 
    		ain't strangers. Stop till I shut the door 
    		of the shop. 
    
    He shuts the door which creaks badly.
    
    				OLD JOE 
    		Ah! There ain't such a rusty bit of metal 
    		in the place as its own hinges, I believe; 
    		and I'm sure there's no such old bones here, 
    		as mine. Ha, ha! We're all suitable to our 
    		calling, we're well matched. Come into the 
    		parlour. Come into the parlour.
    
    They follow him into:
    
    INT.  THE PARLOUR 
    
    A space behind a screen of rags. Old Joe rakes the fire together with an old
    stair-rod, and having trimmed his smoky lamp, with the stem of his pipe, puts 
    it in his mouth again. While he does this, the charwoman throws her bundle on 
    the floor, and sits down in a flaunting manner on a stool; crossing her 
    elbows on her knees, and looking with a bold defiance at the other two. 
    
    				CHARWOMAN 
    		What odds then! What odds, Mrs Dilber? 
    		Every person has a right to take care of 
    		themselves. He always did!
    
    				LAUNDRESS
    		That's true, indeed! No man more so. 
    
    				CHARWOMAN 
    		Why then, don't stand staring as if you 
    		was afraid, woman; who's the wiser? We're
    		not going to pick holes in each other's 
    		coats, I suppose?
    
    				LAUNDRESS
    		No, indeed! 
    
    				UNDERTAKER
    		We should hope not.
    
    				CHARWOMAN
    		Very well, then! That's enough. Who's the 
    		worse for the loss of a few things like 
    		these? Not a dead man, I suppose.
    
    				LAUNDRESS
    		No, indeed! 
    
    				CHARWOMAN 
    		If he wanted to keep 'em after he was 
    		dead, a wicked old screw, why wasn't he 
    		natural in his lifetime? If he had been, 
    		he'd have had somebody to look after him 
    		when he was struck with Death, instead of 
    		lying gasping out his last there, alone 
    		by himself.
    
    				LAUNDRESS
    		It's the truest word that ever was spoke. 
    		It's a judgment on him. 
    
    				CHARWOMAN
    		I wish it was a little heavier judgment, 
    		and it should have been, you may depend 
    		upon it, if I could have laid my hands on 
    		anything else. 
    			(turns to Old Joe) 
    		Open that bundle, old Joe, and let me know 
    		the value of it. Speak out plain. I'm not 
    		afraid to be the first, nor afraid for them 
    		to see it. We know pretty well that we were 
    		helping ourselves, before we met here, I 
    		believe. It's no sin. Open the bundle, Joe.
    
    But the undertaker mounts the breach first and produces his plunder of which 
    there's not much: a seal or two, a pencil-case, a pair of sleeve-buttons,
    and a brooch of no great value. Old Joe examines and appraises them and then
    chalks up his asking price for each, upon the wall, and adds them up into a 
    total. 
    
    				OLD JOE 
    			(to the undertaker)
    		That's your account, and I wouldn't give 
    		another sixpence, if I was to be boiled for 
    		not doing it. Who's next?
    
    The laundress is next. Sheets and towels, a little wearing apparel, two old-
    fashioned silver teaspoons, a pair of sugar-tongs, and a few boots. Old Joe 
    chalks her account on the wall in the same manner.  As he does, Scrooge turns 
    to the Phantom beside him.
    
    				SCROOGE  
    		This is disgusting.  I can't look at this.  
    		Haven't you anything better to show me?
    
    Scrooge turns his back on the group and stares at the wall.
    
    				OLD JOE 
    		I always give too much to ladies. It's a 
    		weakness of mine, and that's the way I ruin 
    		myself.  That's your account. If you asked 
    		me for another penny, and made it an open 
    		question, I'd repent of being so liberal 
    		and knock off half-a-crown.
    
    				CHARWOMAN 
    		And now undo my bundle, Joe. 
    
    Joe goes down on his knees for the greater convenience of opening her bundle, 
    and having unfastened a great many knots, drags out a large and heavy roll of 
    some dark stuff. It's Scrooge's bed-curtains.
    
    				OLD JOE 
    		What do you call this?  Bed-curtains?
    
    The charwoman laughs and leans forward on her crossed arms.
    
    				CHARWOMAN 
    		Ah! Bed-curtains!
    
    				OLD JOE 
    		You don't mean to say you took them down, 
    		rings and all, with him lying there? 
    
    				CHARWOMAN 
    		Yes I do.  Why not?
    
    Scrooge, still with his back to the scene, listens to this dialogue in horror. 
    
    				SCROOGE  
    		Huh!  Rings and all!
    
    				OLD JOE 
    		You were born to make your fortune, and 
    		you'll certainly do it.
    
    				CHARWOMAN 
    			(coolly)
    		I certainly shan't hold my hand, when I can 
    		get anything in it by reaching it out, for 
    		the sake of such a man as he was, I promise 
    		you.
    
    Old Joe pulls out some more material.
    
    				CHARWOMAN 
    		Joe, don't drop that oil upon the blankets, 
    		now.
    
    				OLD JOE 
    		His blankets?
    
    				CHARWOMAN 
    		Whose else's do you think?  He isn't likely 
    		to take cold without 'em, I dare say.
    
    Old Joe stops and looks up. 
    
    				OLD JOE 
    		I hope he didn't die of anything catching? 
    		Eh?
    
    				CHARWOMAN 
    		Don't you be afraid of that. I ain't so 
    		fond of his company that I'd loiter about 
    		him for such things, if he did. Ah! you 
    		may look through that shirt till your eyes 
    		ache; but you won't find a hole in it, nor 
    		a threadbare place. It's the best he had, 
    		and a fine one too. They'd have wasted it, 
    		if it hadn't been for me.
    
    				OLD JOE 
    		What do you call wasting of it?  
    
    				CHARWOMAN 
    		Putting it on him to be buried in, to be 
    		sure. Somebody was fool enough to do it, 
    		but I took it off again. If calico ain't 
    		good enough for such a purpose, it isn't 
    		good enough for anything. It's quite as 
    		becoming to the body. He can't look uglier 
    		than he did in that one.
    
    As they sit grouped about their spoil, in the scanty light afforded by Old 
    Joe's lamp, the three watch old Joe put the various items out of sight and 
    produce a flannel bag with money in it.  He doles out payment to each.  
    Scrooge turns to watch.
    
    				CHARWOMAN 
    		Ha, ha! This is the end of it, you see! He 
    		frightened every one away from him when he 
    		was alive, to profit us when he was dead! 
    		Ha, ha, ha! 
    
    A sickened Scrooge turns to the Phantom.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Spirit! I see, I see. The case of this 
    		unhappy man might be my own. My life tends 
    		that way, now. That is the lesson I am to 
    		draw from this poor man's fate, is it not?
    
    The Phantom, as if in anger at Scrooge's stupidity, violently lashes out -- 
    spreading its dark robe over Scrooge, momentarily blinding him -- then whips 
    the robe away to reveal:
    
    INT. DARK ROOM
    
    Scrooge finds himself in a dark room, almost touching a bed: a bare, 
    uncurtained bed.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Merciful Heaven, what is this?
    
    The room is very dark, too dark to be observed with any accuracy, though 
    Scrooge glances 'round it, anxious to know what kind of room it was. A pale 
    light, rising in the outer air, falls straight upon the bed; and on it, 
    plundered and bereft, unwatched, unwept, uncared for, is the body of a man. 
    
    				NARRATOR 
    			(voice over)
    		Oh cold, cold, rigid, dreadful Death, set 
    		up thine altar here, and dress it with such 
    		terrors as thou hast at thy command: for 
    		this is thy dominion! But of the loved, 
    		revered, and honoured head, thou canst not 
    		turn one hair to thy dread purposes, or make 
    		one feature odious. It is not that the hand 
    		is heavy and will fall down when released; 
    		it is not that the heart and pulse are still; 
    		but that the hand was open, generous, and true; 
    		the heart brave, warm, and tender; and the 
    		pulse a man's. Strike, Shadow, strike! And 
    		see his good deeds springing from the wound, 
    		to sow the world with life immortal. 
    
    Under the voice over: Scrooge glances towards the Phantom. Its steady hand 
    points to the covered head. Scrooge hesitantly approaches the dead man and 
    attempts to uncover its face.  But he cannot bring himself to do so.  His 
    hand shakes and he backs away. A cat meows somewhere in the dark.  Scrooge, 
    his face dripping with sweat, turns to the Phantom.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Spirit! This is a fearful place. In leaving 
    		it, I shall not leave its lesson, trust me. 
    		Let us go!
    
    Still the Phantom points with an unmoved finger to the head. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I understand you and I would look at this 
    		dead man's face, if I could. But I have 
    		not the power, Spirit. I have not the power.
    
    The Phantom seems to look upon him. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		If there is any person in the town, who 
    		feels emotion caused by this man's death, 
    		show that person to me, Spirit, I beseech 
    		you!
    
    The light that falls from above instantly flashes, momentarily blinding 
    Scrooge.  When his eyes clear:
    
    INT. BRIGHT ROOM - DAY
    
    Scrooge stands in a room by daylight, where a mother and her children sit. 
    The children play quietly.  The mother looks out the window; glances at the 
    clock, and tries, but in vain, to work with her needle. At the sound of a 
    knock, she hurries to the door, and meets her husband; a man whose face, 
    though young, is careworn and depressed. There is a remarkable expression in 
    it now; a kind of serious delight of which he feels ashamed, and which he 
    struggles to repress. 
    
    				SHE
    		Tell me the news.
    
    He appears embarrassed how to answer. 
    
    				SHE
    		Is it good ... or bad?  
    
    				HE
    		Bad. 
    
    				SHE
    		We are quite ruined?
    
    				HE
    		No. There is hope yet, Caroline.
    
    				SHE
    		If he relents, there is. Nothing is past 
    		hope, if such a miracle has happened.
    
    				HE
    		He is past relenting. He is dead.
    
    After a long moment, the news sinks in.
    
    				SHE 
    			(genuinely)
    		I am thankful in my soul to hear that.  
    			(a little less convincingly) 
    		May God forgive me for having said such a 
    		thing.
    
    She clasps her hands together in joy.
    
    				HE
    		When I tried to see him and obtain a 
    		week's delay, his charwoman told me he was 
    		ill; and what I thought was a mere excuse 
    		to avoid me, turns out to have been quite 
    		true. He was not only very ill, but dying, 
    		then. 
    
    				SHE
    		To whom will our debt be transferred?
    
    				HE
    		I don't know. But before that time we shall 
    		be ready with the money; and even though we
    		were not, it would be a bad fortune indeed 
    		to find so merciless a creditor in his 
    		successor. We may sleep to-night with light 
    		hearts, Caroline! 
    
    Their hearts are clearly lighter. The children's faces, hushed and clustered 
    round to hear what they so little understood, are brighter; Standing in the 
    sunlight, next to a window, Scrooge slowly turns to the Phantom.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		So ... it's a happier house for this man's 
    		death!  Is that the only emotion you can 
    		show me -- pleasure?  
    			(beat) 
    		But then I don't suppose one can find much 
    		tenderness connected with a death?
    
    The Phantom reaches up and pulls down the window-shade, blocking the sun, 
    darkening the room.  The Phantom releases the shade and it snaps up and out 
    of view to reveal a night sky and the reflection of a lit fireplace in the 
    glass.  Scrooge looks at the glass a moment before turning to see where he 
    is.
    
    INT. BOB CRATCHIT'S HOME - NIGHT
    
    Mrs. Cratchit and the children sit round the fire. Quiet. Very quiet. The 
    noisy little Cratchits are as still as statues in one corner, and sit looking 
    up at Peter, who has a book before him. The mother and her daughters sew. 
    
    				PETER 
    			(reads aloud)
    		...  He shall cover thee with his feathers, 
    		and under his wings shalt thou trust: his 
    		truth shall be thy shield and buckler. 
    		Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by 
    		night; nor for the arrow that flieth by day; 
    		Nor for the pestilence that walketh in 
    		darkness; nor for the destruction that 
    		wasteth at noonday.  A thousand shall fall 
    		at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right 
    		hand; but it shall not come nigh thee. 
    		Because thou hast made the Lord, which is 
    		my refuge, even the most High, thy 
    		habitation;  There shall no evil befall 
    		thee, neither shall any plague come nigh 
    		thy dwelling. For he shall give his angels 
    		charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy 
    		ways.  Because he hath set his love upon 
    		me, therefore will I deliver him: I will 
    		set him on high, because he hath known my 
    		name. He shall call upon me, and I will 
    		answer him: I will be with him in trouble; 
    		I will deliver him, and honour him....
    
    Peter looks up to see Mrs Cratchit lay her work upon the table and put her 
    hand up to her face. 
    
    				PETER
    		Shall I stop reading?
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    		No, no.  It's only the colour.  It hurts my 
    		eyes. 
    
    Scrooge is puzzled by this: he peers intently at the group.  Black is the 
    colour of the material in the women's hands.  Mrs. Cratchit regains her 
    composure.
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    		They're better now again. It makes them weak 
    		by candle-light; and I wouldn't show weak 
    		eyes to your father when he comes home, for 
    		the world. It must be near his time.
    
    				PETER
    		Past it rather. But I think he has walked a 
    		little slower than he used to these last 
    		few evenings, mother.
    
    Peter shuts his Bible. They are very quiet again. A long pause, and then Mrs 
    Cratchit speaks in a steady, cheerful voice, that only faulters once.
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    		I have known him walk with -- I have known 
    		him walk with Tiny Tim upon his shoulder, 
    		very fast indeed.
    
    				PETER
    		And so have I.  Often.
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    		But he was very light to carry, and his 
    		father loved him so, that it was no trouble: 
    		no trouble. 
    
    A noise stirs her.
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    		And there is your father at the door!
    
    Bob in his comforter comes in -- alone. As the family greets him with his cup 
    of tea in an unusually subdued fashion, it finally dawns on Scrooge what has 
    happened.
    
    				SCROOGE  
    		Oh, my God...
    
    The Phantom makes no move.  Scrooge watches as the Cratchit family draws 
    about the fire; Peter tries to read silently to himself; the girls and mother 
    return to their sewing; Bob sips his tea.
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    			(pleasantly)
    		I ran into Mr. Scrooge's nephew in the 
    		street today.  He thought I looked a little 
    		-- just a little down, you know -- and he 
    		inquired as to what had happened to distress 
    		me. On which, for he is the pleasantest-spoken 
    		gentleman you ever heard, I told him. "I am 
    		heartily sorry for it, Mr Cratchit," he said, 
    		"and heartily sorry for your good wife." 
    			(pause) 
    		By the bye, how he ever knew that, I don't 
    		know.
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    		Knew what? 
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		Why, that you were a good wife. 
    
    Mrs. Cratchit smiles.
    
    				PETER
    		Everybody knows that. 
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT  
    		I hope they do. "Heartily sorry," he said, 
    		"for your good wife. If I can be of service 
    		to you in any way, be sure to let me know" 
    		-- and he handed me his card. Now, it wasn't 
    		for the sake of anything he might be able to 
    		do for us, so much as for his kind way, that 
    		this was quite delightful. It really seemed 
    		as if he had known our Tiny Tim, and felt 
    		with us.
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    		I'm sure he's a good soul.
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		You would be surer of it, if you saw and 
    		spoke to him. I shouldn't be at all surprised 
    		if he got Peter a better situation.
    
    				MRS. CRATCHIT 
    		Hear that, Peter? 
    
    				MARTHA
    		And then, Peter will be keeping company with 
    		someone, and setting up for himself.
    
    				PETER 
    			(grins)
    		Get along with you!
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    			(to Peter)
    		It's just as likely as not, one of these 
    		days; though there's plenty of time for 
    		that. 
    			(to all) 
    		But however and whenever we part from one 
    		another, I am sure we shall none of us 
    		forget poor Tiny Tim -- shall we? -- or 
    		this first parting that there was among 
    		us?
    
    				THE CHILDREN 
    			(ad-lib)
    		Never, father!  No.  Of course not.
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		And I know... I know that when we recollect 
    		how patient and how mild he was; although 
    		he was a little, little child; we shall not 
    		quarrel easily among ourselves, and forget 
    		poor Tiny Tim in doing it.
    
    				THE CHILDREN 
    			(ad-lib)
    		No, never, father!  That's right.
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    			(at the point of tears)
    		I am very happy.  I am very happy. 
    
    Mrs Cratchit kisses him, his daughters kiss him, the two young Cratchits kiss 
    him, and Peter shakes his hand. Bob abruptly leaves the room, and goes 
    upstairs.  The family members look at one another with concern.
    
    INT. UPSTAIRS ROOM
    
    A bedroom, cheerfully lit, and hung with Christmas decorations. Bob enters 
    hesitantly and sits down in a chair close to the bed.  After he composes 
    himself with an unspoken prayer, he leans over and kisses the face of Tiny 
    Tim, whose body we now see stretched out, lifeless, on the bed. Bob breaks 
    down all at once. 
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    			(nearly inaudible)
    		My little, little child. My little child.
    
    Scrooge watches grimly from the far side of the room.  The Phantom stands 
    beside him.  Scrooge shuts his eyes.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(to the Phantom)
    		Tell me what man that was whom we saw lying 
    		dead.
    
    When Scrooge opens his eyes...
    
    EXT. LONDON STREET
    
    Scrooge and the Phantom are halfway between Scrooge's counting-house and the 
    church tower opposite it.  The Phantom leads Scrooge toward the church.  But 
    Scrooge, seeing the counting-house, grasps the Phantom's robe.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Wait.  That is where my place of occupation 
    		is, and has been for a length of time. Let 
    		me behold what I shall be, in days to come.
    
    The Phantom stops; the hand points elsewhere. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		My office is yonder.  Why do you point away?
    
    The inexorable finger undergoes no change. 
    
    				SCROOGE  
    		Just wait a moment, please.
    
    Scrooge rushes off.
    
    EXT. COUNTING-HOUSE
    
    Scrooge nervously hastens to the window of his office, and looks in. It's an 
    office still, but not his. The furniture is not the same, and the figure in 
    the chair is not himself. 
    
    EXT. LONDON STREET
    
    The Phantom points as before. Scrooge joins the Phantom once again, confused, 
    and accompanies it until they reach an iron gate. He pauses to look round 
    before entering. 
    
    EXT. THE CHURCH YARD
    
    A row of gravestones.  Walled in by houses; overrun by grass and weeds.  The 
    Phantom stands among the graves, and points down to One. Scrooge advances 
    towards it, trembling. Then stops. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Before I draw nearer to that stone to which 
    		you point, answer me one question. Are these 
    		the shadows of the things that Will be, or 
    		are they shadows of things that May be, only?
    
    Still the Phantom points downward to the grave by which it stands. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Men's courses will foreshadow certain ends, 
    		to which, if persevered in, they must lead.  
    		But if the courses be departed from, the 
    		ends will change. Say it is thus with what 
    		you show me!
    
    The Phantom is immovable as ever. Scrooge creeps toward the grave, trembling;
    and following the finger, reads upon the stone of the neglected grave his own 
    name, Ebenezer Scrooge. Scrooge falls to his knees.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Am I that man who lay upon the bed? 
    
    The finger points from the grave to Scrooge, and back again. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		No, Spirit! Oh no, no! 
    
    The finger still is there. Scrooge scrambles to his feet and clutches the 
    Phantom's robe.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Spirit!  Hear me! I am not the man I was. 
    		I will not be the man I must have been but 
    		for this intervention. Why show me this, 
    		if I am past all hope?
    
    For the first time, the hand appears to shake. Scrooge falls down before it, 
    sobbing violently, his face wet with tears.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Good Spirit.  Your nature intercedes for 
    		me, and pities me. Assure me that I yet may 
    		change these shadows you have shown me, by 
    		an altered life!
    
    The kind hand trembles. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I will honour Christmas in my heart, and 
    		try to keep it all the year. I will live 
    		in the Past, the Present, and the Future. 
    		The Spirits of all Three shall strive within
    		me. I will not shut out the lessons that they 
    		teach. Oh, tell me I may sponge away the 
    		writing on this stone! 
    
    In his agony, as he catches the spectral hand, Scrooge sees an alteration in 
    the Phantom's hood and dress. It shrinks, collapses, and dwindles down into a 
    bedpost. 
    
    INT. SCROOGE'S BED-ROOM
    
    Yes! and the bedpost is his own. Scrooge lets go of the post and scrambles 
    out of bed, falling to his knees.  He is out of his mind, babbling like a 
    lunatic.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I will live in the Past, the Present, and 
    		the Future! The Spirits of all Three shall 
    		strive within me. Oh Jacob Marley! Heaven, 
    		and the Christmas Time be praised for this! 
    		I say it on my knees, old Jacob; on my 
    		knees! 
    
    Scrooge folds a bed-curtain over his arm.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		They are not torn down.  They are not torn 
    		down, rings and all. They are here: I am 
    		here: the shadows of the things that would 
    		have been, may be dispelled. They will be. 
    		I know they will!
    
    Scrooge's hands are busy with his garments all this time: turning them inside 
    out, putting them on upside down, tearing them, mislaying them, etc. He 
    laughs and cries in the same breath, stumbling out of the bed-room.
    
    INT. SCROOGE'S SITTING-ROOM
    
    Scrooge stands there: perfectly winded. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I don't know what to do!  I am as light as 
    		a feather, I am as happy as an angel, I am 
    		as merry as a school-boy. I am as giddy as 
    		a drunken man. A merry Christmas to every-
    		body! A happy New Year to all the world! 
    		Hallo here! Whoop! Hallo!
    
    Scrooge starts off again, going round the fire-place.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		There's the saucepan that the gruel was in!  
    		There's the door, by which the Ghost of 
    		Jacob Marley entered! There's the corner 
    		where the Ghost of Christmas Present, sat! 
    		There's the window where I saw the wandering 
    		Spirits! It's all right, it's all true, 
    		it all happened. Ha ha ha!
    
    Really, for a man who has been out of practice for so many years, it's a 
    splendid laugh, a most illustrious laugh. The father of a long, long line of 
    brilliant laughs.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I don't know what day of the month it is!  
    		I don't know how long I've been among the 
    		Spirits. I don't know anything. I'm quite 
    		a baby. Never mind. I don't care. I'd 
    		rather be a baby. Hallo! Whoop! Hallo 
    		here!
    
    He pauses as the church bell rings out the hour.  Scrooge starts babbling 
    along with it.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Clash, clang, hammer, ding, dong, bell! 
    		Bell, dong, ding, hammer, clang, clash! 
    		Oh, glorious, glorious! 
    
    He runs to the window, hurls it open, and looks out.
    
    EXT. SCROOGE'S BUILDING - DAY
    
    Not a trace of fog or darkness.  Golden sunlight; Heavenly blue sky; merry 
    bells. Not too many people on the street.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Oh, glorious. Glorious! 
    
    Scrooge spots a BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES, loitering on the sidewalk below.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		What's to-day?
    
    				BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES 
    		Eh? 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		What's to-day, my fine fellow?
    
    				BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES 
    		To-day? Why, Christmas Day. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(to himself)
    		It's Christmas Day! I haven't missed it. 
    		The Spirits have done it all in one night. 
    		They can do anything they like. Of course 
    		they can. Of course they can. 
    			(to the boy) 
    		Hallo, my fine fellow!
    
    				BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES 
    		Hallo! 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Do you know the Poulterer's, in the next 
    		street but one, at the corner? 
    
    				BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES 
    		I should hope I did. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(to himself)
    		An intelligent boy! A remarkable boy! 
    			(to the boy) 
    		Do you know whether they've sold the prize 
    		Turkey that was hanging up there? Not the 
    		little prize Turkey; the big one?
    
    				BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES 
    		What, the one as big as me? 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(to himself)
    		What a delightful boy! It's a pleasure to 
    		talk to him. 
    			(to the boy) 
    		Yes, my buck!
    
    				BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES 
    		It's hanging there now. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Is it? Go and buy it.
    
    The boy stares in disbelief for a moment, then thumbs his nose at Scrooge in 
    disgust.
    
    				BOY IN SUNDAY CLOTHES  
    		Walk-er!
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		No, no, I am in earnest. Go and buy it, 
    		and tell 'em to bring it here, that I may 
    		give them the directions where to take it. 
    		Come back with the man, and I'll give you 
    		a shilling. Come back with him in less than 
    		five minutes, and I'll give you 
    		half-a-crown!
    
    The boy takes off running down the street.
    
    INT. SCROOGE'S SITTING-ROOM
    
    Scrooge rubs his hands and laughs. He writes Bob Cratchit's address on a slip 
    of paper with an unsteady hand.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I'll send it to Bob Cratchit's! He sha'n't 
    		know who sends it. It's twice the size of 
    		Tiny Tim. Joe Miller never made such a joke 
    		as sending it to Bob's will be!
    
    EXT. SCROOGE'S BUILDING 
    
    Moments later, Scrooge opens the street door, ready for the coming of the 
    poulterer's man. As he stands there, with the slip of paper in his hand, the 
    knocker catches his eye. He pats it with his hand.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		I shall love it, as long as I live! I 
    		scarcely ever looked at it before. What an 
    		honest expression it has in its face! It's 
    		a wonderful knocker! 
    
    The boy and the POULTERER'S MAN arrive with a gigantic turkey.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(to the knocker)
    		Here's the Turkey. 
    			(to the turkey-bearers) 
    		Hallo! Whoop! How are you! Merry Christmas!
    
    Scrooge inspects the turkey -- it never could have stood upon its legs, that 
    bird. It would have snapped 'em short off in a minute, like sticks of 
    sealing-wax. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Why, it's impossible to carry that to Camden 
    		Town. You must have a cab.
    
    Scrooge chuckles as he says this, and we go into a 
    
    CHRISTMAS DAY MONTAGE
    
    Scrooge chuckles as he pays for the Turkey, chuckles as he pays for the cab, 
    chuckles as he recompenses the boy, chuckles as he sits down breathless in 
    his sitting-room chair again, and chuckles till he cries. 
    
    Scrooge shaves at his wash-basin.  His hand shakes very much; partly because 
    he is laughing and dancing with joy. At one point, he nicks himself and 
    laughs even harder.
    
    Out in the street, Scrooge is dressed in his Sunday best. By this time, 
    crowds pour forth, as he had seen them with the Ghost of Christmas Present; 
    Walking with his hands behind him, Scrooge regards every one with a delighted 
    smile. He looks so irresistibly pleasant that three or four good-humoured 
    fellows say, "Good morning, sir! A merry Christmas to you!"  Scrooge reacts 
    as if these are the sweetest sounds he's ever heard and returns the greeting.
    
    Farther down the street, Scrooge suddenly tenses up.  Coming on towards him 
    he sees the portly gentleman, who had walked into his counting-house the day 
    before, and said, "Scrooge and Marley's, I believe?" Scrooge slows down for a 
    moment, then resolves himself to what he must do.  He quickens his pace and 
    takes the gentleman by both his hands.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		My dear sir. How do you do? I hope you 
    		succeeded yesterday. It was very kind of 
    		you. A merry Christmas to you, sir!
    
    				1st GENTLEMAN 
    		Mr Scrooge?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Yes. That is my name, and I fear it may 
    		not be pleasant to you. Allow me to ask your 
    		pardon. And will you have the goodness --
    
    Scrooge whispers in his ear. The gentleman reacts as if his breath were gone.
    
    				1st GENTLEMAN 
    		Lord bless me!  My dear Mr Scrooge, are 
    		you serious?
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		If you please.  Not a farthing less. A great 
    		many back-payments are included in it, I 
    		assure you. Will you do me that favour?
    
    				1st GENTLEMAN 
    			(shakes Scrooge's hand)
    		My dear sir.  I don't know what to say to 
    		such munificence.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Don't say anything, please.  Come and see me. 
    		Will you come and see me?
    
    				1st GENTLEMAN 
    		I will!
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Thank 'ee.  I am much obliged to you. I 
    		thank you fifty times. Bless you!
    
    CHRISTMAS DAY MONTAGE CONTINUES
    
    Several views of Scrooge in church.  It's been years since his last visit and 
    he looks around nervously upon entering. During the singing of a hymn, 
    everyone knows the words by heart, save Scrooge -- who rapidly thumbs 
    through a hymn-book, until the little boy sitting on his right hands him his 
    own hymn-book opened to the correct page, whereupon Scrooge nods to him in 
    thanks.  Later, Scrooge pulls out a huge wad of bills and puts entirely too 
    much money in the collection plate before handing it to the astonished woman 
    on his left -- and upon seeing her startled look, he hastily removes a few 
    more bills from the wad and places them in the plate with an impish grin.
    
    Scrooge walks about the streets, watches the people hurrying to and fro, pats 
    children on the head, questions beggars, looks down into the kitchens of 
    houses, up into the windows: and finds that all these things yield him 
    pleasure.
    
    EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT
    
    In a nice part of town.  Scrooge paces uncertainly outside. He slowly 
    approaches the front door but at the last moment, he returns to the sidewalk. 
     Finally, he takes a deep breath, finds the courage to go up and knock, and 
    makes a dash for it.  He knocks and stands there, tight-lipped and shaking 
    nervously.  No answer.  He begins to leave.  A maid opens the door.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Is your master at home, my dear?
    
    				MAID
    		Yes, sir.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Where is he, my love? 
    
    				MAID
    		He's in the sitting-room, sir, along with 
    		mistress. I'll show you in, if you please.
    
    INT.  HOUSE
    
    The maid leads Scrooge to the closed sitting-room door.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Thank 'ee. He knows me. I'll go just in, 
    		my dear.
    
    Scrooge crosses to the sitting-room and tenses up as he puts his hand on the 
    doorknob. The maid sees this and watches Scrooge curiously.  Scrooge looks up 
    to see her staring at him.  From his face, it's clear to her that he is 
    scared to enter and she gives him a reassuring nod and smile.  Scrooge 
    returns the smile and, taking a deep breath, he turns the doorknob gently and 
    sidles his face in, round the door. 
    
    INT. HIS NEPHEW'S SITTING-ROOM
    
    Scrooge sees his nephew Fred surrounded by his party guests -- all laughing a 
    long, hearty laugh, exactly as Scrooge had heard it when with the Spirit.
    
    				FRED 
    		He said that Christmas was a humbug, as I 
    		live! He believed it too!
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Fred! 
    
    Scrooge flings the door open and startles his niece who is, as before, 
    sitting in the chair in the corner right by the door.  Scrooge is at once 
    apologetic and turns to her.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Oh, I'm so sorry.  I forgot you were there.
    
    She doesn't know quite what to make of that.  Scrooge's back is momentarily 
    turned toward his nephew who gazes on him in disbelief.
    
    				FRED 
    		Why bless my soul!  Who's that?
    
    Scrooge turns around to face his astonished nephew, then nervously threads 
    his way through the guests to confront him.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		It's I. Your uncle Scrooge. 
    
    An awkward pause ensues as everyone merely stares at Scrooge -- a skunk at a 
    garden party.  He realizes he must try to break the ice.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(flawlessly imitates The Plump Sister) 
    		It's your Uncle Scro-o-o-o-oge!  
    
    Scrooge flashes a happy grin.  The guests stare at him in confusion.  He 
    grows immediately sober.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(to Fred)
    		I have come as you asked. Will you let me in, Fred? 
    
    				FRED 
    		Let you in!  I --
    
    Fred bursts out laughing again and shakes Scrooge's hand so hard, it's a 
    mercy he doesn't take his arm off. Fred is still laughing as some of the 
    other guests crowd around Scrooge, greeting him, patting him on the back, 
    bringing him a drink.  Some of the others move away from him and whisper 
    among themselves: Surely this isn't the Uncle Scrooge!
    
    				ONE OF THE GUESTS 
    			(to Scrooge)
    		You know, I have always wanted to meet you, 
    		Mr. Scrooge.  The droll way in which your 
    		nephew portrays you has made me curious.  
    		I say, have you met Mister...?
    
    One of the female guests has begun to play a simple little tune upon the 
    harp; and the others choose partners and take to dancing about the room. 
    There might be twenty people there, young and old, but they all dance. 
    Including, for the first time in years, Ebenezer Scrooge.
    
    								DISSOLVE TO:
    
    INT. COUNTING-HOUSE - DAY
    
    The day after Christmas.  Bright sunshine pours into Scrooge's office.  All 
    is quiet save for the ticking of the clock -- which reads 9:18.  Scrooge sits 
    behind his desk, grinning like a madman, with his door wide open so that he 
    might see Bob Cratchit come into his tank-like office.  Bob bursts in, his 
    hat and comforter already off. He jumps on his stool in a jiffy, driving away 
    with his pen, as if he were trying to overtake nine o'clock.  Meanwhile, 
    trying to suppress a grin, Scrooge manages an approximation of his old 
    caustic personality.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Cratchit! You're late! What do you mean by 
    		coming here at this time of day?
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		I am very sorry, sir. I am behind my time.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		You are? Yes. I think you are. Step this 
    		way, if you please.
    
    Bob reluctantly leaves the Tank and joins Scrooge in the office.
    
    				BOB CRATCHIT 
    		It's only once a year, sir. It shall not 
    		be repeated. I was making rather merry 
    		yesterday, sir.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		Now, I'll tell you what, my friend.  I am 
    		not going to stand this sort of thing any 
    		longer. And therefore ...
    
    Scrooge leaps from his chair, and gives Bob such a dig in the waistcoat that 
    he staggers back into the Tank again.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		... and therefore I am about to raise your 
    		salary!
    
    Bob gasps, trembles, and inches away from Scrooge, picking up a nearby ruler 
    to use in self-defense. 
    
    				SCROOGE 
    		A merry Christmas, Bob! A merrier Christmas, 
    		Bob, my good fellow, than I have given you 
    		for many a year!  
    			(quietly) 
    		I'm going to raise your salary.  And if 
    		you'll let me, I'd like to try to help your 
    		family.
    
    An incredulous Bob stares at Scrooge for a long, long moment.
    
    				SCROOGE 
    			(laughs)
    		Well, let's discuss it this afternoon, over 
    		a Christmas bowl of smoking bishop, Bob! 
    		Make up the fires, and buy another 
    		coal-scuttle before you dot another i, Bob 
    		Cratchit.
    
    Scrooge grins at a still uncertain Bob Cratchit.  The distant sound of 
    carolers singing an appropriate hymn grows louder.
    
    								DISSOLVE TO:
    
    INT. SITTING-ROOM - NIGHT
    
    The Narrator looks down at the book in his lap, a quiet smile on his face.  
    Outside his window, a small group of carolers slowly approach continuing the 
    hymn.  The young people circled around the Narrator seem edgy and 
    dissatisfied.
    
    				NARRATOR  
    		And that's the story.  
    
    				THE SKEPTICAL ADOLESCENT
    		How much of that was true?
    
    				NARRATOR 
    			(matter-of-fact)
    		Well, I was there for some of it. And I 
    		heard about some of it. 
    			(winks) 
    		And I made up the rest.
    
    The children laugh.
    
    				THE SKEPTICAL ADOLESCENT
    		Yeah, but did old man Scrooge really keep 
    		his word?
    
    				NARRATOR  
    		Yes.  In fact, he was better than his word. 
    		He did everything he said he would, and 
    		much more.
    
    				THE TEN YEAR OLD GIRL 
    			(concerned)
    		What happened to Tiny Tim?  Did he --?  
    		Did he --?
    
    				NARRATOR 
    			(reassuring)
    		No.  Tiny Tim did not die. And Scrooge was 
    		like a second father to him. 
    			(a faraway look in his eye)  
    		He became as good a friend, as good a 
    		teacher, and as good a man, as any person 
    		could hope to know.
    
    The girl seems reassured.
    
    				THE SKEPTICAL ADOLESCENT 
    			(laughs)
    		Oh, come on.  People just don't change like 
    		that overnight.
    
    				NARRATOR 
    			(shrugs)
    		In fact, a lot of people laughed at him 
    		when he changed, but he let them laugh, 
    		and didn't pay any attention to it; I think 
    		he was smart enough to know that nothing 
    		good ever happens in this world that people 
    		won't laugh at it -- at first.  And that 
    		it's better to make people laugh than make 
    		them do some other things I can think of. 
    			(beat) 
    		His own heart laughed: and I think that was 
    		good enough for him. 
    
    				THE ADOLESCENT WHO 
    				WISHED HE WAS AN ADULT
    		And do you mean to say that he had no 
    		further intercourse with Spirits?
    
    				NARRATOR 
    		Ah, well... 
    			(mischievous grin) 
    		After that, he adopted the principle of 
    		abstinence and no Spirits ever visited him 
    		again, as far as he knew.
    
    The Narrator glances around at his audience but there are no more questions.  
    He decides to add a final word.  
    
    				NARRATOR  
    		Well... It was always said of Mr. Scrooge 
    		that if anyone knew how to keep Christmas 
    		well, it was him. If only that could truly 
    		be said of us. Of all of us.  Merry 
    		Christmas.
    
    The Narrator returns the book to the ten year old girl.
    
    				THE TEN YEAR OLD GIRL 
    			(quietly, to herself) 
    		... and may God Bless Us, Every One.
    
    The Narrator smiles.  Outside, the caroling has gotten steadily louder.  A 
    tapping sound causes everyone to turn to the window, where the carolers 
    beckon to them.  Everyone in the room hollers ("Hey!" "Look who's here!").  
    They rise and rush to the front door -- except for the ten year old girl who 
    lingers to help the Narrator to his feet.  He thanks her and, hand in hand, 
    they follow the others to the door.  For the first time, we see he carries a 
    cane.  And limps, favoring his right leg.   Could this be Tiny Tim all grown 
    up?  They join the little crowd just outside the door -- carolers and 
    children -- in singing "God Rest Ye Merry, Gentlemen" or some such thing.
    
    EXT. THE FRONT DOORSTEP
    
    As they sing, their breath visible in the cold night air, we PAN UP and AWAY 
    to find ...
    
    EXT. ROOFTOP 
    
    A spectral figure leaning over the edge of the roof, peering down, smiling at 
    the music.  It is MARLEY'S GHOST, a look of peace and satisfaction on its no 
    longer glassy face.  Marley turns to reveal another ghost right beside him -- 
    Scrooge's.  To the surprise of both, the chain 'round Marley's body jerks to 
    life and begins to unspool rapidly, falling away from him as if there were a 
    ship's anchor at the end of it.  In a moment, the chain is gone and Marley is 
    free.  He clutches his waist and looks himself over. And then beams at 
    Scrooge gratefully. Scrooge grins, then realizes something.  Suddenly, he 
    reaches up with his left hand and removes the wrapper that keeps Marley's jaw 
    in place.  The jaw does not drop.  Marley clicks his teeth together a few 
    times to test them, then breaks into a broad smile.  He mouths a "Thank you" 
    to Scrooge.  The two ghosts shake hands.  Scrooge looks down at the wrapper 
    in his hand and, with a flourish, tosses it over the edge.  The two ghosts 
    take flight, into a night sky teeming with free spirits, as the group below 
    finishes singing... a Christmas carol.
    
    FADE OUT
    
    A long, silent pause.
    
    FADE IN on what appears to be the FLOOR of Scrooge's room upon which rests 
    the extinguisher cap last seen covering the Ghost of Christmas Past.  The cap 
    tips over and the ghost appears from under it in a dazzling burst of light.  
    The ghost's FACE fills the screen and, after a wink, it begins to morph into 
    the faces of all the featured actors.  As each actor's face appears, their 
    credit is superimposed beneath them.  The final image is of Tiny Tim in 
    Scrooge's arms, giving the old man a hug.
    
    				TINY TIM 
    			(whispers)
    		May God bless us, every one.
    
    The image blurs and spirals away under the extinguisher cap and suddenly all 
    is dark.
    
    END CREDITS
    
    FADE OUT
    
    
    
    
